Durban - The executive mayor of eThekwini, Mxolisi Kaunda, tabled his budget speech on Tuesday under the theme “unity and cohesion, towards building a thriving social solidarity economy, people-centred development, and integrated growth within our city”. Detailing work on water infrastructure aimed at improving water supply in rural and township communities such as Mbumbulu, Ngonyameni, Inanda, Ntuzuma, Mnini and KwaMakhutha, Kaunda said progress was being made, although it was disrupted by the recent floods. Kaunda said the capital budget for the 2022/23 financial year amounted to approximately R5.6 billion and thereafter R4.9bn in 2023/24, with a provision of R5.1bn made for the 2024/25 financial year. “Renovation of the Durban Heights Water Reservoir will be completed before the end of June. The replacement of a water aqueduct to maximise water supply in Umlazi Water Reservoir will come at an estimated cost of R892 million. “Upgrading of Umbumbulu Pump Station will be completed in 2024. There is an upgrade on the construction of the R28bn Umkhomazi Dam and Lower Umkhomazi Water Scheme to be completed in 2025, while the Hazelmere Water Reservoir upgrade, which will start next year, will cost R70m. The Lovu River Emergency Scheme, which has already commenced, will be completed in February next year,” said Kaunda. He said the municipality was implementing interventions in the Umlazi and Ngonyameni area, where R67m has been allocated for the installation of the Southern Aqueduct project and Inwabi to Ngonyameni bulk pipeline. “In Umzinyathi, the city has allocated R29m for emaQadini water projects, R27m has been set aside for the Zwelibomvu inlet phase project, R8m for the Ntuzuma Reservoir and a water pump station upgrade; R2.5m has been set aside for Umnini to upgrade Amagcino reservoir and the installation of water pumps to improve water supply in high-lying areas. “In Mfume,” Kaunda said, “the municipality will invest R31m to upgrade water infrastructure in the area. In KwaMakhutha, Adams, Mbumbulu and Folweni, we have allocated R54m to install an inlet main and upgrading of two water reservoirs.” He said his administration would upgrade the Kwanyuswa pipeline and Thandokuhle and Kwanqetho reservoirs at a cost of R59m, and added that R15m had been allocated for the drilling of boreholes throughout the municipality. “For the 2022/23 financial year, the municipality will electrify 24 settlements, which include Mshayazafe, Amatikwe, Tshelimnyama, Emmaus and Bottlebrush, at an estimated cost of R51m. R40m was being allocated to replace damaged transformers.” On rate and tariff increases, Kaunda said the rate randage on residential property has been decreased by 10% because of the new valuation roll. “The water tariff increase for residential is 5.9% and 9% for business. The electricity tariff increase is 7.47% against an Eskom increase of 9.61%. Sewerage tariff increase for residential is 5.9% and 9% for business. The refuse tariff increase is 4.5% for residential customers and 7.9% for businesses,” he said. In reaction to the budget speech, DA eThekwini caucus leader Nicole Graham said that her party would not support the budget, citing that there were too many worries and the concerns had only been discussed, but not addressed. “The city’s sanitation infrastructure was already in a precarious state prior to the floods, but is now in complete tatters,” Graham said. Leader of the IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi said the people were tired of glamorous, long speeches by the mayor. “During the public participation engagements, people complained about lack of services, but the budget clearly shows we cannot meet those services and deliver to our people,” he said. Deputy mayor and leader of the Abantu Batho Congress Philani Mavundla also rejected the budget speech and said that there were inconsistencies with the speech. He said that his party would comment once the corrections were made. In support of the ANC, the caucus leader of the EFF, Thabani Miya, endorsed the budget speech, but raised concerns about the eviction of poor people by the City, arguing that this was only done to poor black people because they could not afford to litigate. The budget vote was deferred until next week, when all parties will reconvene to vote on the budget speech. Daily News