Durban ​— The IFP in KwaZulu-Natal has launched an investigation into allegations of nepotism against its Uthukela District Municipality mayor Inkosi Ntandoyenkosi Shabalala, who has been accused by opposition parties of employing his children and members of his tribal police. The mayor has been under fire from the ANC, NFP National People's Assembly since last week after the parties said they had information that the inkosi has influenced the employment of his relatives without interviews. Vocal on the allegations against the mayor was NPA leader Nkosinathi Mthethwa, who had called on the IFP and Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) MEC Sipho Hlomuka to investigate the matter. IFP spokesperson Mkhuleko Hlengwa said the party was looking into the allegations. Cogta spokesperson Senzo Mzila said the department was not aware of the allegations but will check the veracity of them. Mthethwa said positions were advertised but there were no interviews; instead people were just called to come to work without checking if they qualified for the jobs or not. The NFP also weighed in on the matter, calling for an investigation into the allegations. Party councillor Bonisiwe Biyela said the mayor must be investigated and accused him of doing as he pleased due to the fact that his party enjoyed a majority status. Inkosi Shabalala denied that he had employed his children or relatives, saying all those people named by Mthethwa were not his children and threatened to sue him for defamation. He said he had not employed anyone or influenced anyone's employment. The regional ANC Youth League accused the mayor of turning the municipality into a personal employment agency. The league's regional secretary Sphelele Masuku said they noted the serious allegations of nepotism where the mayor had allegedly dished out jobs to close relatives and friends. He said the league had been told that no less than 20 people were unlawfully employed under the instructions of the inkosi. Furthermore, Masuku said the league was in possession of the names of the workers, and the capacities they were placed in. “This is not raised in political jealousy but the alleged brazen nepotism that we see today cannot be hidden under the guise of the community's lack of trust in the outgoing ANC-led administration. “We are in agreement with communities that a weakened and infiltrated ANC cannot be entrusted in advancing the national democratic revolution through compromised deployees but we cannot sit back and observe as the IFP makes a mockery of the gains of freedom," said Masuku. The league will use all means necessary to defend the integrity of young people and the democratic institutions which are meant to serve them. Daily News