Durban - After the extraordinary disappointment of the past two years because of Covid-19, the 2022 Pietermaritzburg Royal Agricultural Show is back in business. The show has about 500 exhibitors and coincides with the Royal Agricultural Society’s 170th anniversary. It runs until June 5. The display mix largely adhered to the successful “recipe” of past years, with a number of interesting additions. Apart from agriculture, the Royal Show continues to cater to a broad mix of commercial, industrial and service sector exhibits, including informative and professional displays by the SANDF and SAPS, among others. The 150-year-old Crafts and Home Industries Section has been modernised to exclusively cater for two primary exhibits; these being the arts of cake icing and quilting. Also, with an interactive presence adjacent to the Crafts Hall, the Woodworkers Guild will again be participating. Visitors can look forward to: • The RSG Concert on Sunday afternoon, June 5, featuring Elvis Blue, Demi Lee, Pietman Geldenhuys (aka Peter Mitchell) and the Coffee Snobs. • The Hindvani FM Extravaganza will see a fusion of music and dance on Saturday night, June 4. • An upgraded Bagjump will be returning to the show. Experience the thrill of the “freefall”, a no-strings attached jump into a giant inflatable landing mattress from an 18m-high scissor lift platform, not too far off the height of a five-storey building. • The equestrian programme will include show jumping, Boerperd, children’s and national showing classes. • The Royal Show has also been chosen to host an international women’s tent-pegging competition between the national sides of South Africa and Jordan. • With the focus on creating awareness, Working on Fire will be hosting two lunch-hour demonstrations for schoolchildren. • Two performances of the Jungle Rush Freestyle Moto-X Show on Friday, June 3, followed by the Saturday early evening Monster Flight Night, an outstanding Moto-X display with pyrotechnics. • Also on Saturday, a classic parade of the inimitable Mini motor car, spanning the years 1959 to 1972. • Sunday morning will see the main arena hosting the schools Marimba Fest. The talent of these youngsters, and the visceral tone and uniqueness of this African instrument, always ensure a pleasing experience. • Skydiving display on Saturday, June 4. • The Karkloof Canopy Zipline, as well as the province’s largest fun-fair and much, much more. Daily News readers stand a chance to win a set of four entrance tickets to the Royal Show. Enter by SMSing DNROYAL, your name and surname to 33258. SMSes cost R1.50. The competition closes Wednesday, June 2, at 8am. Daily News