Durban — Since the Durban July is around the corner, to offer guests from all over the country who will be in attendance, Signature Soirée in partnership with Radisson Blu Hotel in uMhlanga will give guests a 5-star luxury experience. Signature Soirée’s co-director Lunga Sokhela said that based on the calibre of the people in attendance it was only fitting that they looked for a location that was top class, and it was only fitting that they partnered with this luxurious hotel. He said its location was beautiful. “In a patriotic way, we wanted to work with someone local so that we can assist them in promoting the hotel. We chose Radisson Blu because we are happy with its facilities. Looking at the type of experience we want to give our guests, we are almost certain that the hotel will deliver,” said Sokhela. The experience that it promises is 5-star. A three-day affair will start on July 1, starting with an exclusive event hosted at the hotel, where guests will rub shoulders with A-listers at the red carpet welcome soirée. The experiment will continue on July 2, the day of the Hollywoodbets Durban July. To get the guests to one of Africa's premium events, they will be chauffeured in luxury SUVs. On arrival at the Signature Soirée marquee, Sokhela said the guests would step into an experience like no other as they would enjoy the famous “day at the races” in style. “Our brand signature lies in offering the best there is. Partnering up with a luxury hotel is just one of the ways we are ensuring a spectacular weekend offering.” He said all the headaches of the guests would be taken care of as they would offer seamless operations. Executives from Top 40 JSE-listed companies would also be hosted. Sokhela said all the economic sectors would be in one place. He added that he was adamant that long-lasting relationships that would yield positive benefits in future would be built. Sizwe Mchunu, who is also a co-director, said it would not only be fun and games, but relationships that would roll out mega investments would be forged, and hopefully last for generations. It is said that no detail will be spared in the standout glass-front marquee, from the finest cuisine to some of the finest tipples at the bespoke bar. With all the finest luxury that money can buy on offer, guests can maximise their time in the lap of luxury by placing their bets in the Hollywoodbets station while enjoying a number of the country’s leading acts taking to the stage. On July 3, guests will be treated to a bubbly brunch. This is the first year offering such an experience. Pricing ranges between R6 500 and R175 500 for all the packages. People can book at: bookings@signaturesoiree. co.za Daily News