Durban - The University of KwaZulu-Natal hosted an awarding of certificates ceremony for their 2020-2022 cohort of Ma’at Institute interns at Southern Sun Elangeni and Maharani hotel. The aim of the ceremony was to show its appreciation of the Covid-19 Psychological Internship Programme. The event was held in partnership with the university, the Health and Welfare Sector Education and Training Authority (HWSETA) and the Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET). The Ma’at Institute has a multidisciplinary team of psychologists, social workers, and community and policy development and media and communication staff. Ma’at refers to the ancient Egyptian concept of truth, balance, order, harmony, law, morality and justice. which the institution said guides it in its operations. Its main purpose is to advance Afrocentricity worldwide through various interventions, and they deal with issues communities face on a daily basis. The institution is located at UKZN’s School of Applied Human Sciences situated situated within the College of Humanities. UKZN vice-chancellor, Professor Nana Poku, said the interns played a major role in making the programme a success because “they went out of their way every day to see it through”. “We would also like to thank the interns because without them, all of this wouldn’t have been done. We thank them for their resilience. They were with us all the time. “It was a hard time, but they put themselves out there to ensure that communities were taken care of since they relied on them, and I just hope they continue spreading their wings and serve the country,” Poku said. HWSETA chief executive officer Elaine Brass said all the interns were supervised by professionals and taught how to deal with people affected by Covid-19. They dealt with issues such as suicide, unemployment, discrimination, gender-based violence and mental health, among others. “They went out into the world that is unknown and risked their lives for the betterment of people’s well-being. They made a huge difference; they would also do school interventions, and they would even do plays and presentations to help get the message across. It is safe to say that they touched everyone’s hearts,” Brass said. Deputy director-general of skills development at the DHET, Zukile Mvalo, said the programme dealt with people’s worries, anxiety and fears that arose during the pandemic.  Fundile Ndlanzi, who served as an intern counsellor at the Ma’at Institute, said she learnt a lot at the institution. Ndlanzi worked as an online counselling intern, helping those who were affected by Covid-19 and undertook various community-based interventions. “Working under the leadership and guidance of Dr Zibane and Dr Buthelezi was such a humbling experience as it opened my eyes to the numerous social ills in our communities and just how much the intervention we provided made a difference in the lives of those who needed it most.” She said the most important lesson she learnt is that Ubuntu lived in each and every one of us and that every person deserved a chance to be heard. Ndlanzi said she would be forever grateful for the opportunity to serve the community and make a meaningful contribution to society. She also described the institution as a ray of sunshine and a light in the darkness. Daily News