Durban - A financially struggling municipality in southern KwaZulu-Natal has set aside R1 million for the process to rename itself after a late confidant of former president Jacob Zuma. Ubuhlebezwe Local Municipality (Ixopo of Alan Paton fame) wants to rename itself after Johannes Phumani “Past Four” Phungula. Phungula, who was born in Hlokozi, which falls under the municipality, was an accomplished MK commander based in Mozambique and later Tanzania. In his exile days, he worked closely with Zuma for more than 40 years. He reportedly earned the “Past Four” tag, as he believed the best time to attack an enemy camp was after 4pm when everybody was relaxed. To show their friendship, Phungula attended Zuma’s inaugural ceremony in Pretoria as his personal guest. When Phungula died in August, 2009 Zuma delivered the eulogy. To mark 10 years since the death of Phungula in August 2019, Zuma visited Ixopo to address a memorial lecture in Phungula’s honour and remembered him as a “gallant freedom fighter”. According to a source within the municipality, the R1m tab would be used for rebranding purposes in the coming months. “They are planning to splash R1 million on the renaming process, but it is not clear on what. Some officials feel that this money will be looted by some of the councillors,” the source said. The municipality’s mayor, Bathobile Ngubo, confirmed that the R1m had been allocated. “The council has, in its budget, set aside R1m to mitigate any cases that may arise during the process. The amount will cover newspaper adverts and other related articles. Please note that the cost may even be far lower than the budgeted amount. “The council was unanimous in its decision. The process will take an adequate period legislated for, but all stakeholders and communities will be consulted,” she said in a written response to the Daily News. But Sandile Jali, a DA councillor in the municipality, said they were told only that the money needed was R800 000 and they were told it was for rebranding after the name change has been approved. “It’s R800 000 and we are opposed to that, as we feel the amount is exorbitant. The money can be better spent elsewhere,” Jali said. In its motivation for the renaming, Ngubo said Phungula was a “brave freedom fighter”. “We welcome the proposed name and we believe that this decision will honour not only honourable Phungula, but the generation of other brave Struggle heroes who were willing to place all on the line for the liberation of the oppressed masses of our people. “Past Four” discharged his responsibilities with dedication, discipline, diligence and humility, and the life of this great leader epitomises heroism and commitment to the cause of the poor. It’s important that we leave a legacy,” Ngubo said last week, while announcing the public consultation process. Ngubo added that Phungula was deployed to work in his hometown of Hlokozi to revive political consciousness among the rural communities. “He was instrumental in mobilising women’s protests in Ixopo against the draconian pass laws. In 2004, he was elected to the National Assembly where he remained a member until the end of the term of the third democratic Parliament. “‘Past Four’ had astute leadership qualities and many of our public representatives referred to him for wise counsel. The council, therefore, urges the public to comment on the proposed name change and partake positively during the public consultation processes,” she said. Daily News