Durban - The Pinetown Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday granted three men charged with the murder of Northdene resident Kenneth William Price, 74, bail of R5 000 each. Julio Nobrega, 32, who was Price’s neighbour, Nathan Padayachee, 23, Nobrega’s employee, and Nikiel Pillay, 24, also Nobrega’s employee, were granted bail by magistrate Gwendolyn Robinson. Pillay began crying at the onset of the application as his legal representative read out his affidavit, as well as when the state was reading out the investigating officer’s affidavit opposing the men being granted bail. Price was reported missing on December 6, and his family raised the alarm after failing to contact him. He lived alone on Oliver Leese Road in Malvern. Police investigations led to the recovery of his decomposing body in Richards Bay last month. Pillay, who seemed overcome with relief, could not stop crying as he heard magistrate Robinson say that she could not find a real risk, from what was presented to the court, that the men were a flight risk and should not be granted bail. She further said that there was no evidence that the accused had interfered, or would, interfere, with the case or evidence. “Considering your personal circumstances together, they amount to exceptional circumstances,” she said. Robinson explained that in schedule six matters, such as the one the accused faced, the onus was on the accused to prove exceptional circumstances for the court to permit the granting of bail. In an affidavit read out in court, the investigating officer, Sergeant G Pharella, said that his concern was the likelihood that the accused were a flight risk. He said that Nobrega had relatives abroad, to which Nobrega’s defence argued that he had four children who depended on him and that he owned property worth “more than a million” in the country. Detailing the circumstances around the alleged commission of the crime, Pharella said that there had been attempts to conceal and dispose of the body by dumping it in Empangeni. He told the court that the accused knew the witnesses in the matter, adding that accused one (Padayachee) was “seen hitting the deceased with a hammer twice”. The murder weapon in the matter had not yet been found, and Pharella said he was concerned that the accused, if given bail, would be able to hide it. Pharella told the court that Price had been at a braai drinking with the men, and that it had been a statement that accused number two (Nobrega) had set in motion the events leading to Price’s death, that being “it’s time to do the job”. He said Price’s body was recovered following a pointing-out in Empangeni by Padayachee of the area where the body had been dumped. He told the court that the braai had been a ploy to take advantage of the man, adding that the accused planned the murder and they were found with the suspected stolen property including three motorbikes. Pharella told the court that the alleged motive for the murder was that Price often “checked on activities” at the yard of Nobrega, who was a motor mechanic working from home and then phoned the police. All three men in their affidavits read out in court indicated that they intended to plead not guilty to the charge against them. Daily News