Durban - After months of relative calm, the Zulu royal court is set to face fresh turmoil after some of its members organised a traditional ceremony without the knowledge of King Misuzulu. In the latest spat, some members of the royal family have announced that on July 4 this year they will host an event to mark the official end of the mourning for the Zulu nation following the death of King Goodwill Zwelithini in March last year. In a statement, the members who spoke via Prince Mxolisi Zulu, a half-brother of the late king, said the ceremony would be held at KwaKhethomthandayo palace in Nongoma. “Since it’s winter and some rites regarding royal mourning are done, several members of the royal house including Queen Mavis Zungu, princes and princesses, the Ndwandwe family (from which King Goodwill Zwelithini’s mother came) met several times to discuss the logistics around the ceremony marking the end of mourning. “Following our tradition, we wish to inform the nation of a cleansing ceremony that will take palace at eNaleni/KwaKhethomthandayo on July 4, 2022. People must come and attend this important event meant to honour uMdlokombane (King Goodwill Zwelithini) in their numbers. The royal house is determined to honour the legacy of the late king by undertaking all the rites due to him,” read the invitation to the ceremony. The choosing of the host venue is set to spark a debate as according to supporters of King Misuzulu within the royal house, KwaKhangelamankengane palace, also in Nongoma, is the new centre of power. However, those opposed to the reigning king said KwaKhethomthandayo was the right place because even the mourning for the late king took place there. Prince Mxolisi said everyone was invited, even King Misuzulu and his brothers. However, he said they always invited the house of KwaKhangelamankengane, but they hardly honoured their invitations. “We did send them an invitation to the ceremony. However, on many occasions when we invite them, they don’t come,” he said. He added that they expected everyone who was part of the mourning to come and take part in the cleansing ceremony. “We expect all people from all walks of life and corners of the Zulu Kingdom to come and take part in this important event where we will mark the end of mourning for our beloved king,” he said. The spokesperson of King Misuzulu, Prince Thulani Zulu, said they were not aware of the ceremony and the invitation. “If it was sanctioned by iSilo, there would be a name at the bottom. This is a no-name statement, a faceless statement,” Prince Thulani said when asked by the Daily News about the statement. This invitation comes at a time when those who are supporting King Misuzulu are still waiting for Prince Simakade Zulu, the first-born son of the late king, to file his court position where he is set to challenge the recognition of King Misuzulu by President Cyril Ramaphosa. The prince’s lawyer, Johann Hammann, previously told the Daily News that once prepared, the detailed papers would be filed with the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria. Daily News