Durban — A teenage boy remains in custody at an institution for child offenders after his father told the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court that he could not return to their area as the community was angry with him. “It’s really difficult right now because the community doesn’t want him there, they are angry. I’ve spoken to him about school and he says he no longer wants to go. I go to work at 4am, I will have to leave him there the whole day not knowing what he’s doing, it’s difficult,” the boy’s father told the court. The teen is charged with sexual assault which falls under schedule 3. It is alleged that he unlawfully and intentionally sexually violated a 5-year-old by touching her private parts. He is also alleged to have made the child touch his private parts. The teen’s father told the court that the community was volatile as the teen had allegedly threatened them, saying “he was going to get them”. The teen first appeared in court on June 3 where the matter was adjourned for a probation officer’s report. This week, a probation officer’s report on the teen was submitted to the court and one of the recommendations was that he be kept at a child justice care centre. According to the State, a forensic social worker's report on the victim was still outstanding. Statements from people who were present at an apparent meeting in the community where the teen allegedly spoke about the allegations levelled against him are also still outstanding. Calling for calm, KZN Department of Social Development spokesperson Mhlaba Memela said the law had to be allowed to take its course. He added that communities taking the law into their own hands was a crime and the police would act on it. “This incident brings hurt. To think there’s a boy of this age who allegedly decided to do this to a child. The reality goes back to us as parents; we must ensure that our children are being supervised. We have to tell the truth; that there’s a general negligence when it comes to looking after children among our people,” Memela said. “What is important as communities is to protect our children, and those offenders who are teens must get an opportunity to be corrected. As painful as the situation is, the community needs to be calm. “Police have started their job and now the guidance of the court will be followed. Social workers will deal with this young boy at the centre where he is being kept. It will be ensured that he goes to school.” The matter was adjourned to July for further investigation. Daily News