Durban — DA councillors in eThekwini will start nominations to replace outgoing party caucus leader Nicole Graham, who recently announced that she was vacating both positions as caucus leader and councillor. Graham, who will be serving for the last day as caucus leader on Thursday, will also resign as a councillor at the end of July. She is leaving the country to further her studies in Australia. DA provincial chairperson Dean Macpherson told the Daily News on Wednesday that nominations would open tomorrow (Friday) for members to nominate their preferred candidates until July 8, when the candidates will be made on July 11, adding that the election would then take place on July 18 with the announcement of the successful candidate on that day. Macpherson said deputy caucus leader Mzamo Billy will act in the position. “Candidates will have to fill out a nomination form for the name that needs to be proposed and seconded by a member of the caucus and submit this to the party to be evaluated if candidates meet the requirements to stand in an internal election,” said Macpherson. Speaking to the paper on Wednesday, Graham thanked eThekwini residents and everyone that has been supportive of her resignation. She said although it was a difficult decision, she believed it was the right one for her future. Graham who was elected as councillor in 2011 at the age of 21 said the caucus was skilled and she has no doubt it would find someone to take over her. She added she was humbled by the support and well wishes from different people. Graham was elected as a caucus leader in 2018 taking over Zwakele Mncwango who had gone to the legislature after his re-election as party leader in the province. She was re-elected as caucus leader after last year’s local government election. In March last year, she contested the party provincial leader position and lost to Francois Rogers. She contested for the mayor’s position and lost to Mxolisi Kaunda. Among the councillors that were expected to be nominated was Sithembiso Ngema, who is currently deputy provincial chairperson and provincial spokesperson. Ngema contested and lost to Graham. Daily News