Durban - Mondli Khumalo, 21, is recovering after being in a coma for a week. Khumalo, a former SA Under 19 cricket player, was assaulted after a night out on May 29, in Bristol, UK, where he plays for the North Petherton Cricket Club. Khumalo was attacked after a social affair with his friends and team members after a game they had on Saturday. After parting ways he went to catch a taxi and that is when he was attacked. According to the chief executive of the KZN Inland Cricket Union in Pietermaritzburg, Jason Sathiaseelan, Khumalo sustained severe head injuries and has had three operations. “After a tough week in hospital, Mondli is starting to recover and is now in a stable condition. With each day, he is getting better. We are arranging for his family to fly to the UK on Tuesday and they will be by his side,” Sathiaseelan said. Khumalo’s mother, Sibongile Khumalo, still in shock over the incident, said she was yet to believe that her son was hurt as everything made no sense. “Why would anyone hurt my son? He left in April and is still trying to figure out the UK and now this happens. “He would never harm a soul, the only thing he lives for is cricket. I worry whether or not he is still going to be able to play because if we take cricket away from him he would not function,” said a worried Sibongile. She added that she just wanted her son to come back home. Sibongile said she received a call saying that her son had woken up and asked when he was returning to the field. However, Sathiaseelan said he can’t talk as yet. “A 27-year-old male suspect has been arrested. The matter is still under investigation,” he added. Minister of Sports, Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa also wished Khumalo well and thanked the cricketing family and all cricketers, including Kevin Pietersen, who had started a crowdfunding drive to assist the family. The department also helped in fast-tracking Khumalo’s family details so that they can travel to see him. “The department immediately took steps to assist by engaging with Home Affairs with the fast-tracking of the passport application for his family to travel to the UK,” the statement read. Daily News