Durban — KwaZulu-Natal police on Monday confirmed that a 41-year-old man alleged to have raped and impregnated his daughter when she was 17 had been apprehended after being on the run. Spokesperson Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo said: “The suspect was arrested on June 19 in the Bhamshela area; he appeared before the Camperdown Magistrate’s Court on June 20 and was remanded in custody.” The Daily News reported this information after having spoken to the victim, whose child is 3 years old. According to police, it was alleged that in 2018, a 17-year-old woman was raped and impregnated by a relative. The suspect was arrested and failed to appear before the Camperdown Regional Court this year on Friday, May 6. The Pinetown Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit (FCS) is investigating the case. It was only in 2020 that the victim opened a case with the police and, frustrated with its progress, she took to social media pleading for help and sharing her story. A non-governmental organisation that answered her plea helped her have a DNA test done. The results came back in September last year, following which police said the suspect would be sought. In January, the victim and her mother found out that the father had appeared in court, and in March the investigating officer gave the victim the accused’s court appearance dates, the first being on May 5. It is alleged that the day before the court appearance, he kidnapped the toddler, and during a search by the community, he was allegedly seen leaving the child at a tavern. Meanwhile, in another rape matter that was being handled by the Pinetown FCS Unit and is now at a stage where the trial has been completed, judgment was on Monday delayed at the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court. Petros M Mokoena, 49, was supposed to hear judgment concerning the alleged rape of his blind neighbour; however, his defence counsel was not in court as he was ill and the matter was adjourned to July 6 for the attorney to come to court and a new judgment date be set. Last year in January, Mokoena was allegedly caught committing the act by his alleged victim’s sons. He is alleged to have offered R1 000 before managing to flee, leaving behind some of his belongings. The accused, who was a family friend, is said to have entered the home and allegedly went into the woman’s bedroom. During the trial, the alleged victim had said she recognised the voice of the accused. Daily News