Durban — The KwaZulu-Natal legislature held their annual Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex, Asexual (LGBTQIA+) Symposium at Durban’s Olive Convention Centre on Wednesday. The symposium was preceded by a march to the Durban High Court, where the KZN legislature submitted a memorandum to the court highlighting all the challenges that the LGBTQIA+ sector is facing. The LGBTQIA+ sector has experienced hate crimes, from homophobic insults to hate speech, rape and murder. The LGBTQIA+ community said the reason behind going to the Durban High Court was to appeal to the court to hear their cry for help about the members of the community who were killed and raped almost every day because of their sexual orientation. Their main concern was that the cases of the accused were usually not taken further or followed up on. Members from all parts of the province came in their numbers to attend the march and symposium, with the aim of tackling challenges faced by the LGBTQIA+ sector in communities, workplaces and the justice system. KZN legislature speaker Nontembeko Boyce urged law enforcement agencies to bring justice closer to the victims by not holding court proceedings in areas far away from the scene of the crime, as victims were often unable to attend and the sector could not offer them financial support. “We have noted with grave concern that some hate crime cases are heard in courts which are far away from crime scenes and therefore force victims to travel long distances to attend court proceedings. We urge the judiciary to address this as it not only puts the lives of the victims in danger of being attacked while being far from their homes, but it also penalises them with undue hardship in acting for and seeking justice,” she said. Wandile Khumalo, who was assaulted two weeks ago because of his sexual orientation, was also present at the march. He hoped that their pleas would not fall on deaf ears. Khumalo claimed that he had been rejected from three jobs because of his sexuality. “I’m often overlooked because of my sexuality. I am transgender. I was assaulted just two weeks ago and I’m here to break the silence. Our brothers and sisters are killed and violated and it all starts with assaults, and I’m here to let my voice be heard because enough is enough,” said Khumalo. uBumbano Newcastle LGBTQI+ chairperson Nomusa Mazibuko, whose organisation promotes love and acceptance from society and families, hoped the march and symposium would bear fruit. “We would like to see our families fully accepting us for who we are because we have tried to hide but we can’t. If your own family does not accept you, how is society supposed to accept you?” she said. Boyce also urged churches to work with them in defending victims as they needed human rights defenders in all parts of the country. Daily News