Durban — Evidence on events leading up to the 2020 murder and rape of a Folweni teenage girl is to be heard when the teen’s “friend” goes on trial in the Durban High Court in November. Samkelo Victus Dube, 29, is charged with rape, murder and assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm. It is alleged that on October 5, 2020, at or near Folweni, Dube unlawfully and intentionally and without her consent had sexual intercourse with Sibahle Faith Biyela, 17, under circumstances in which grievous bodily harm was inflicted on the victim. He is also alleged to have unlawfully and intentionally killed Sibahle after having raped her. “The victim was a person who was likely to give material evidence at criminal proceedings in court with reference to an offence referred to in Schedule 1 of the Criminal Procedure Act 57 of 1977,” alleges the State. In relation to the charge of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm, Dube is alleged to have unlawfully and intentionally assaulted Thandiwe Princess Shange by stabbing her with a screwdriver with the intent of causing grievous bodily harm. It is alleged that Sibahle, Shange and Dube were friends and Dube was well known to the two. The State alleges that on the evening of Sunday October 4, Sibahle, Shange and Dube were socialising at Dube’s residence, where he allegedly made repeated sexual advances towards Sibahle, who rejected them. “The victim and Shange left the accused’s place just after midnight on Monday, October 5, 2020. “As they were walking home, the accused ran up to them accusing the victim of having stolen his cellphone. “An argument ensued between the accused and Shange. “He began assaulting Shange and stabbed her in the forehead with a screwdriver.” Following this, Sibahle ran away and Dube is alleged to have chased her and caught her, taking her back to his place. “The victim ran away and was chased by the accused. At some point the accused caught the victim and took her back to his residence, where he pushed a towel into her mouth, assaulted, stabbed and raped her,” alleges the State. The State said a subsequent post-mortem examination established the cause of death of the deceased to be “mixed blunt and incised head and facial wounds with blood aspiration and gagging”. The State is expected to call 13 witnesses, including Shange, a relative of Sibahle’s and a police officer, as well as a doctor from the Park Rynie Mortuary. Dube appeared in court recently, where November 21 to December 1 were set down as the trial period. Daily News