Durban — Busi Gumede from KwaMashu has successfully broken into a market that most large corporations dominate. Gumede has researched and formulated a new “Superfood” based on kephir, which is now ready for market and will be the first in South Africa. According to Gumede, kephir is a natural probiotic which has been around for thousands of years. However, it has not been explored here for a range of products and that is when they saw a chance to formulate their own range of products which consists of spoon kephir, drinking kephir and they have fermented sodas, too. Gumede said her company started back in 2017. The idea initially came about when she suffered from haemorrhoids and had to undergo surgery to remove them. She said a friend then suggested she try kephir so that the haemorrhoids do not return. With a background in food science under her belt, she said, she started doing her research about the kephir culture. “I travelled from Europe, Denmark and Germany, trying to figure out how it’s made, how it’s protected so that it does not die during the production process and just doing general research of the positive impacts kephir has. “I spent a lot of time researching it. I spent more time with Alla Foods in Denmark seeing how they process it and I had them take me through the whole process,” she said. She saw a gap in the market and the personal experience she had, given the idea that everyone needed to get their hands on the brand. Excited as she was after coming back home with so much knowledge to share, Gumede said she faced the stumbling block of getting funding to push her brand forward as she saw that it was going to change people’s lives as their eating choices were going to be much better. Gumede was excited to change people’s lives as through her research she discovered that daily intake of kephir guaranteed a person their required daily nutrition as it is a good microbe and a very beneficial culture. She said the project would have been big had the government not turned her down. “I did not get the support I needed from the government; they turned me down, the same government that is always saying they support black business, but we are launching now and that shows how much I gave it my all.” Gumede said they believed in the project so much that they poured every cent even from their savings to make the project come true. They had initially planned to open their own dairy factory but that failed since they did not get enough funding. The company currently has 60 people employed but Gumede said they could have had close to 400 employees had their big project gone through. She said this was still huge as they were set to launch in selected Checkers stores. Daily News