Durban — Political parties have expressed concern about law enforcement agencies’ slow pace in investigating President Cyril Ramaphosa after he was reported by former spy head Arthur Fraser for allegedly being involved in criminal activities at his Phala Phala farm. Following Fraser’s meeting on Wednesday with the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks), the leader of the African Transformation Movement (ATM), Vuyo Zungula, criticised the delay in investigating Ramaphosa. “The ATM has seen various media reports indicating that the Hawks have for the first time followed up with the complainant, Mr Arthur Fraser. Of concern to the ATM is that the Hawks’ visit to Mr Arthur Fraser, on June 15, 2022, for further details and clarifications has taken a full two weeks since this case was reported on June 1, 2022. “It also gives an impression that the Hawks were as surprised as the rest of the citizens, yet the security of the country is in their hands. The fact that more than two years later the Hawks knew nothing about a burglary of this magnitude on the president’s property is actually very suspicious.” Zungula stated that the excessive time lag for a follow-up by the police did not inspire confidence that the Hawks were taking the matter seriously despite its enormity, which had caught the attention of the world. “The ATM is not surprised that the Hawks dragged their feet to attend to this reported criminality, because the head of the Hawks is appointed by the implicated person, President Ramaphosa. Similarly, the commissioner of police is also appointed by the same implicated person, President Ramaphosa. So, the ATM is not expecting that much will come out of this investigation. “The ATM is calling on the NPA to bring this matter to prosecution as a matter of urgency or issue a certificate of non-prosecution so that private prosecution can do the right thing that will result in all the criminals being in jail.” UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said that the police could not be trusted to investigate Ramaphosa. He also reiterated his party’s call for Parliament to appoint two or three Constitutional Court judges to investigate Farmgate. However, Themba Godi, the president of the African People’s Convention (APC), said the meeting between Fraser and the Hawks was an important development but raised concern about the independence of the Hawks. He said that there was a lot of public pressure on the police and NPA to act or to be seen to be doing something. “There has been very little to make APC believe that this matter will be pursued with integrity, without prejudice. The entire state machinery is at the service of the president, so as the APC we don’t have high hopes that the police will do an impartial investigation. “We hear noises from some quarters that this case can sink President Ramaphosa, and that without him SA is doomed. This already tells you that the establishment smells the danger in this case but is not willing to lose Ramaphosa. Ultimately it is the pressure of the public that will push the police and NPA to act. Sadly for Ramaphosa, the glare of the international media is also on this matter. “Ramaphosa is a naked emperor. The gloss is falling off,” Godi said. Addressing the Youth Day commemoration on Thursday at Makwarela Stadium in Thohoyandou, Limpopo, EFF leader Julius Malema told thousands of people in attendance that his party had declared war on Ramaphosa and his alleged criminal activities on Phala Phala farm. Hawks spokesperson Colonel Katlego Mogale had not commented by the time of publication. Ramaphosa’s spokesperson, Vincent Ngwenya, said that the Presidency would not provide any comment on the matter. Daily News