Durban — KwaZulu-Natal police are searching for those who fatally shot seven people in a tuckshop and five others in a house, in two separate incidents in Mariannhill, south of Durban, on Saturday. In the first incident, Sqhopholozi Tuckshop owner Dancan Mzobe, 65, and his nephews, Sanele and Sibusiso Mzobe, were shot dead when three men walked into the premises and opened fire. The tuckshop, at the corner of Mpanza and Nxele streets in Savannah Park, consists of a wood-and-iron structure attached to a shipping container. Provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said one of the deceased, who was waiting at the tuckshop to see a traditional healer, might have been the actual target of the hit. The other deceased were Phumlani Alfred Mphithiphithi, 62, who was a customer, Siyadumisani Mtshengu, 38, also known as Rasta; Sphamandla Shezi; and Siya Khinisa, who died in hospital. The tuckshop also doubled as a makeshift tavern. One of the survivors, Sibusiso Mzobe, said he was standing at the entrance to the tuckshop when he saw the shadows of three men wearing hats walking up to the shop. He heard the shots and fell to the ground. Mzobe said he crawled on the ground and then ran away. Mphithiphithi’s son, Simphiwe, said his father knew Dancan, the owner of the tuckshop, and left home to chat with him regularly. The distance between Mphithiphithi’s home and the tuckshop is less than 500m. “Within 10 minutes a family member received a call at home saying my father had been shot. When one of them responded they found him at the entrance to the tuckshop. They must have shot him seven times. They even shot him in the head. Who would do such a thing?” The Mphithiphithi family wanted the killers to be arrested and for justice to be served. Mphithiphithi had three children. Simphiwe said he was being strong for his mother. Gift Mtshengu said his brother, Siyadumisani, a builder, was found dead inside the tuckshop. “My family in the Eastern Cape was dealt a heavy blow. My brother was a jovial person who had many jokes to tell. It is hard to accept that he is dead. My mother and his child are in a state of shock back home.” Mariannhill Community Policing Forum spokesperson Neville Skeef said the police station needed to be upgraded and the commander should have a more senior rank so that additional resources could be allocated to the station. “The population of the area has increased tenfold, yet the station is under-resourced and under-staffed. We are shocked that these incidents have taken place. We hope the community can assist in bringing the suspects to book,” Skeef said. In Dassenhoek, which is also within Mariannhill SAPS, a man walked into a house and tried to rob four people of their cellphones and cash, said Naicker. “It is alleged that the people in the house disarmed the man. They allegedly assaulted him and let him go. The man allegedly returned a short while later and shot three women and a man inside the house. Another man was shot dead in the yard. A lady was shot in the shoulder and is recovering in hospital.” The landlord, Siyabonga Shezi, said he was in his room when he heard someone trying to kick down a door. “I am not sure how many shooters there were. The door was kicked open and one of the men walked in and shot them. Another man who stored some of his items in the fridge was walking to collect something when he was shot.” KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison Peggy Nkonyeni spoke to the victims’ families and urged the community to work with the police to prevent crime and expose criminals. KwaZulu-Natal police commissioner Lieutenant-General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi said he had mobilised all available police resources to hunt down the assailants. Daily News