DURBAN - THE social media revolution has just begun and its usage has become one of the most popular online activities. In research conducted by Statista Research Department, it was discovered that in 2020, over 3.6 billion people were using social media worldwide, a number projected to increase to almost 4.41 billion in 2025. With unemployment sky-rocketing, social media can provide much-needed income for young people, who spend hours on social media every day. The Daily News spoke to some of the most influential social media content producers and influencers, who used the platform to generate income. Social media influencer Daniel Marven, known on Twitter as @danielmarven, said the youth had a chance to use social media as a tool that could eradicate unemployment. Big brands were advertising their products using social media accounts with huge followings, he said. “Instead of having to wait for some of the favourite television programmes to air, big brands advertise their products on social media – it is quite cheaper than traditional advertising where billboards, radio, and television are used. “More clients do not have time to go through normal advertising processes, so it is important to evolve and introduce new ways of doing things. Young people with ideas must understand that the content they produce on social media can be paid for if due processes are followed, and they monetise their content. Everyone should familiarise themselves with social media, and take advantage of the opportunities.” Oriphulusa Nyadzhiwa, 20, known as @Ori_DeBig_Beats on Twitter, is one of the most famous influencers on social media. Nyadzhiwa emphasised that social media was a chance to fight unemployment, through various promotions and campaigns from brands. “To be eligible to make extra money using social media, you must post on your social media pages regularly, that will attract a lot of people, and make them follow and engage, which will result in the growth of your influence. “As the influence grows, some brands start to notice you and approach you to be their ambassador or to perform tasks for a specific amount of money. Sometimes you send direct messages to these brands to propose your ideas of working with them. “Another quick way to use social media as a source of money is to have profiles at third-party platforms like TheSalt, Webfluential, Humanz app, Indahash, and other popular platforms to make money just from posting and tweeting,” said Nyadzhiwa. A report by Statista Research Department showed that on average, internet users spend 144 minutes a day on social media and messaging apps. “Market leader Facebook was the first social network to surpass 1 billion registered accounts and now boasts close to 2.5 billion monthly active users. In June 2020, the top social media apps in the Apple App Store included WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger, and the app version of Facebook.” Daily News