DURBAN - The Khula hitmakers Bello no Gallo, whose song and music video has become one of the most popular in the country, are set to release their next song in February. Sabelo Mkhize, better known as Bello, and Zakhele Mthethwa, who is known as Gallo, both hail from KwaZulu-Natal, but met in 2014, when both artists were still in high school. Speaking to the Daily News on Monday, the duo said they were working on a project that would put them on top of the charts and dominate the industry, just as they currently do on various media platforms. Bello no Gallo said they were humbled by the reception they have received from their fans since October last year, when they released their music video and were among the top-five best songs of the year on Ukhozi FM, which boasts over eight million listeners. “We did not expect to be received with such warmth as the newcomers and small players in the industry. We are truly grateful and plan to not disappoint our fans. This is why the next single must be a hit so that we remain constant.” The duo expressed their displeasure with the persistent Covid-19 lockdown restrictions, arguing that it had left many artists unable to perform and struggling to make ends meet. “Gigs are scarce and we are not able to generate enough to sustain us, as many businesses are all affected by the pandemic. It is our hope that all stadiums will be opened so that we can get back to having concerts and other activities in the industry,” said Bello. The young stars have mastered the art of gqom, a genre of electronic dance music, also known as the Durban sound. The pair released their first single, Khula Mfana, in 2019. It featured Biggie from West Ink Records. After that, they released another single, EkseniI, featuring Manqonqo and Fey Title. Bello no Gallo have shared the stage with the likes of DJ Tira, Manqonqo, Babes Wodumo, Sjava, Sho Majozi, AKA and many other well-known artists.  The Khula song has become an anthem for a lot of South Africans and even reached cities where the gqom genre was not popular. To comment on this story send a WhatsApp message to our BackChat column on 071 485 7995 Daily News