DURBAN - AFTER having watched his dream turn to dust because of substance abuse, a Wentworth chef has turned his eyes towards a new goal. Chef Reston Usher, 36, said he was determined to make his dream of embarking on a cooking tour from South Africa to Europe a reality. He said that the tour, “He Came, he Cooked and Conquered”, would depend on sponsors. While on tour, he wanted to share his life story with people. He said he hoped sharing his story of how substance abuse cost him his career could encourage young people, especially matriculants, to stay away from drugs. Usher’s career began in 2012 after his aunt, Yvonne Gordens, enrolled him at the Capsicum Culinary College in Sandton. In 2013, he graduated at the top of his class. Later that year, he got a chance to do his practicals at the Good Food and Wine Show in Johannesburg, followed by the Food Design High Tea featured on the TV show Top Billing. He has rubbed shoulders with food stylist Kirsten Ferriman, Bonang Matheba, Tammy Taylor, Mrs South Africa 2018 finalist Natisha Makka and Shekhinah Thandi Donnelly, known as Shekhinah. In 2014, the head chef in one of the restaurants he worked at encouraged him to apply for a job in the US. However, a criminal record of marijuana possession when he was a teen ended that dream. Usher said he was shattered when he was told that his childhood mistake was preventing him from getting a job abroad. “I started watching food channels from a young age. I did not know that one day I would become a chef, and actually love it. My aunt talked me into doing it as I had dropped out of high school. “I enjoyed it more when I started working. My life had turned for the better and I stayed out of trouble. I felt so betrayed when my past came to haunt me at a time I was supposed to shine. I was shocked,” he said. While waiting for his record to clear, he returned to his home town and worked at the Hilton Hotel as a chef. Since then he has worked at Nambiti Lodge, Rosie’s Bar and Restaurant on the Island of St Helena, Da Paolino Restaurant in Saudi Arabia and African Peninsula, a three-star hotel in Marine Drive on the Bluff, where he is still working. In 2018, Usher finally started his own establishment called Too Much Sauce, which was a success. While his business was at its peak two years later, he again fell into the trap of substance abuse. “I had accomplished a lot at that time. I still regret not attending to my troubles professionally. I had personal challenges and things took the worst turn, all because I gave up. I saw my career crashing right before my eyes and I couldn’t care less. I started selling my restaurant’s equipment. The sponsors pulled out and it was all gone. “I was back on the streets, like I was before my aunt sent me to school. I took my eye off the ball and my dream, which was my reality, turned to ashes because I couldn’t deal with my problems,” said Usher. He said experience made him realise that it was important to seek professional help. “I want people to learn from my mistakes. I had it all, but lost it all because I never dealt with the problem first-hand, so I ended up going back to it. Most young people have just finished their Grade 12, some are going to varsities, starting businesses and some have no plan for the future. I hope this story reaches them and encourages them to make better decisions than I did.” Daily News