DURBAN - The NFP would soon file for a motion of no confidence to oust the IFP from power in Nongoma Local Municipality after winning two wards in the by-elections. This was revealed by the party secretary-general Canaan Mdletshe on Thursday after the Electoral Commission of SA (IEC) released official results confirming the party’s victory in both Nongoma by-elections. He said his party had already sealed a deal with the ANC and the National People’s Front prior to the by-elections that if it won both wards, their coalition must remove the IFP from power. “We have painted Nongoma orange in celebration of our victory. This is part of our preparation to take over. We will certainly file for a motion of no confidence very soon to remove the lazy mayor and put leadership that will deliver services to the people. You will recall Nongoma was under us in 2011 now we are claiming it back,” said Mdletshe. In a statement issued by the IEC on Thursday it confirmed the NFP’s victory in wards 17 and 20. In ward 17, NFP candidate Dumisani Qwabe was killed on October 26, just five days before the elections. Nevertheless, he won the election which resulted in a by-election. The IFP’s Zamani Sibiya won ward 20 but died due to illness weeks after he was elected. In the 45-seat council, the IFP received 21 seats,the NFP 13, ANC 8, and the EFF two, while the National People’s Front (NAPF) got one seat. The NAPF was founded by former NFP member Bheki Gumbi in 2018. The NFP and ANC coalition equalled the IFP’s number of seats, but the EFF with its two seats helped the IFP to take power after the local government elections. Mangaqa Mncwango was appointed mayor. The NAPF’s Bheki Gumbi told the Daily News that after the announcement of results he was inundated with calls from parties wanting to meet him as his party was now the kingmaker. He said his party’s national executive committee would discuss the new developments and decide which coalition it would work with, between the IFP/EFF and NFP/ANC. ANC regional secretary Zakhele Buthelezi said the takeover was imminent but it would be up to Gumbi who he preferred to support. Nongoma mayor Mncwango said although he could not discuss coalitions as they were handled by the national leadership but all he could say was that the IFP was firmly in control and there was no crisis in the municipality. In other by-elections ANC’s Mzi Ngiba retained ward 101 in Cato Crest under eThekwini Municipality. The by-election came as a result of the killing of the ANC candidate Siyabonga Mkhize a few days before the November 1 elections. The IFP retained ward 6 in Okhahlamba Local Municipality in Bergville. The ward became vacant after IFP candidate Themba Khoza was mistakenly registered for ward 6 and 15. After winning both wards, he was asked to choose one and he chose ward 15. In the 29-seat council, IFP has the majority with nine members, followed by the ANC with eight. The African People’s Movement which was founded by former NFP provincial leader Vikizitha Mlotshwa, got six seats while NFP and EFF scored two each. The DA and National People’s Assembly (NPA) got one each. Mlotshwa teamed up with the ANC, NFP and NPA to become mayor. The IFP local leader Sanele Buthelezi said although their win would not shift the power balance the party would continue courting small parties to work with, in order to take power in Okhahlamba. Daily News