DURBAN - Being confined to prison has not deterred offender matriculants from realising their dreams of a tertiary education. Sfundo Gumede, 22, of Qalakabusha Correctional Centre in Empangeni, the 2021 top achiever in the province, was excited about pursuing his teaching studies. “I am not satisfied with the results because I know I could have gotten more. However, I am grateful that I passed. I don’t think that jail changes a person, but I think we change by ourselves because of our dreams and aspirations, once we come to our senses. There are a lot of opportunities, good and bad, in here. Some came to jail without smoking, yet today they are hooked on drugs; but I chose the school because I wanted to better my life,” Gumede said. He wanted to become a cardiologist and own a lab but had to opt for teaching as the prison school lacked physical science teachers. In KwaZulu-Natal there were 23 registered students from two schools – Usethubeni at Westville prison and Qalakabusha in Empangeni. Gumede got six distinctions in subjects including isiZulu, English, maths, history and religious studies while serving his 15-year sentence. The KZN region achieved a 100% pass rate for a third consecutive year despite the hardship of imprisonment and Covid-19 challenges, while Usethubeni received the education minister’s award for the best-performing school after achieving a 100% pass for the sixth year. Nhlakanipho Luthuli, 21, from uMlazi, who is serving his last year, said he wanted to pursue his part-time career as a radio DJ while studying transport and logistics. He obtained four distinctions, in business studies, isiZulu, tourism and life orientation. He said that having a criminal record encouraged him to study further. “I grew up at home and they had businesses. Most of them dealt with big manufacturing and distributing companies. This encouraged me to focus more on ideas that could help them improve their businesses and create employment. I believe I have learnt a lot of things that would be beneficial to my family, and would come in handy after I graduate from varsity,” he said. Luthuli added that he was determined in making himself and his father proud with his good, life-changing moments in the memory of his late grandfather. Njabulo Gwala, 22, of Dassenhoek, achieved five distinctions – in isiZulu, English, life sciences, life orientation and religious studies, and said he had started communication with Unisa in order to study teaching. Gwala, who is serving five years of his 12 year-sentence, said education was his best decision. “These achievements mean a lot to me. I’m grateful that ever since I became a student, I made good decisions to change my life. I’m grateful to our teachers, who stayed with us and pushed us to do more. Without them we wouldn’t have made it here.” Usethubeni had been hoping to scoop position one nationally but the Covid-19 pandemic affected the students, said principal Nelly Mkhize. “They were supposed to get eight distinctions, but due to the challenges brought forward by the pandemic, my students lost so much learning time since Grade 11, and we couldn’t catch up or cover everything in the curriculum. “Also, since they are in this prison environment, the department doesn’t understand anything about the curriculum, hence my students didn’t even get extra classes to cover for the lost time,” said Mkhize. Daily News