DURBAN - Police detectives have made no arrests in connection with the callous murder of two children and the fatal shooting of their mother in Chatsworth last week. On Friday, February 11, at 8.30pm police officers responded to a report of a shooting in the Welbedacht East area where three men carrying guns shot at a family, said police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala. Chazlyn Naicker, 2, died at the scene while her brother, Ainzlee,15, died shortly after arriving at the hospital. Their mother, Charlene Naicker, 38, who was shot six times, died in hospital on Monday morning. Gwala said the matter is still under investigation and that the motive for the attack is unknown. Charges of murder are being investigated by Chatsworth SAPS. Naicker’s sister, Samantha Windvogel, said the family were devastated and struggling to come to terms with the incident. Naicker has four other children between the ages of 5 and 11. It is not clear if they were in the house when the shooting took place. Naicker’s funeral will take place on Thursday. Chazlyn and Ainzlee’s funerals took place on Saturday. Windvogel said they had no idea why this happened and why anybody would have a motive to kill them. She said Naicker was not aware that her children had died. Windvogel said they wanted justice and the murderers to be brought to justice. Reverend Ethan Ramkumar of Survival Centre Ministry said that at this moment in time nothing they could say or do could make the family feel better. “However, our trust is in the Lord and today we can surely say our babies are in heaven. We call upon law enforcement agencies to work swiftly and fast and we hope and pray justice is served. “We cannot let the criminals who have done this evil crime roam freely. We call upon the community of Chatsworth to stand together and make sure justice is served.” Windvogel, an eThekwini Municipality ward councillor, said the family were an emotional wreck and were still coming to terms with what happened. Windvogel said her mother was Naicker’s neighbour and when she heard the gunshots she ran to the house. “My sister was hanging over the stable door. There was blood everywhere. “The children were on the floor in the house … When my mom looked inside, she saw Ainzlee on the floor near my sister. I think he tried to protect his mother when they were shooting. That was the type of child he was.” A neighbour, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said everyone had expected Naicker to make a quick recovery and then reveal to police what had happened and who had done it. “We are all in shock. We live as a tight-knit community. People are afraid of speaking out. Any loss of life is tragic but when it’s on your doorstep you feel it even more,” the neighbour said. Reacting to the incident on Facebook, Warwick Bruce Chapman said, “This, and the violent killing of the guard during the Clover strike, must remind us South Africans that we have a damaged psyche when it comes to the value of human life. It is too easy to find someone willing to take another’s life for money or worse. We have to change the way South Africans think about life.” Daily News