DURBAN - eThekwini deputy mayor and leader of Abantu Batho Congress Philani Mavundla has come to the defence of Dr Makhosi Khoza and said that he hoped ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba would allow her to carry on as chairperson of the municipal public accounts committee (MPAC). Mavundla said last week that he had learnt through the media that there were problems concerning Khoza and the leadership of ActionSA, and that she had eventually stepped down. Mavundla said that he believed Mashaba was a people-centred leader who always had the interests of the people at heart and would not allow personal differences to remove Khoza from her position, because he felt she was the best person for the job. “I have not spoken to Mashaba because I believe he is handling the matter with care. I believe he is a man of honour. “Khoza brings a lot of experience, and we all know her good governance record. She has chaired important government portfolios, and she always acted without fear or favour. We all know that she is a very independent and opinionated leader. “With her as chair of MPAC, the people of eThekwini must know that their money is in safe hands. No one in the municipality will be spared because she will ensure that there is accountability,” said Mavundla. Khoza and her national leadership had locked horns over various issues leading to her resignation as chair of the party in KwaZulu-Natal. Khoza said that there were rumours that she had worked with the ruling party to form the coalition government in eThekwini, which might have been the cause of the media reports on speculations about her resignation. “Mashaba is a good leader, and I believe that we will overcome whatever issues we have. We both are concerned about the well-being of all residents,” said Khoza. She said that she would not resign as chair of MPAC. “I was surprised when I was voted as the chair in the municipality. I believe that the council had confidence in me.” ActionSA provincial leader Musa Kubheka said the party's mandate was to ensure that the people of eThekwini took priority before everything else. Mashaba did not respond to enquiries. Daily News