DURBAN - ANC eThekwini ward 54 councillor, Themba Mnguni, appeared in the Ntuzuma Magistrate's Court on three murder charges, on Thursday. Mnguni, 63, was brought before the courts in connection with the murder of three women, who were gunned down during an ANC meeting before the local government elections in Inanda last year. He appeared alongside Thandaza Mbeje, who also faces the same charges. The pair joined a long list of accused – Sibongile Buthelezi, ANCWL's ward 54 secretary-general, Samukelisiwe Maphumulo, and Thembinkosi Mkhwanazi – who were granted R3 000 bail last month as well as Siyabonga Lundy, who was given R10 000 bail. The six are accused of shooting and killing Beatrice Nzama, 60, Ncamisile Shange, 34 and Philisiwe Jili, 37, in September 2021, in a drive-by shooting believed to be politically motivated. Heavily armed police guarded the court, and after a lengthy delay, the duo appeared before the magistrate. Senior prosecutor, Yurie Gangai, applied for a postponement for bail application, with no objections from the defence attorney. The magistrate adjourned for February 11, and remanded both the accused in custody. Outside court, activists were present to show their support to the victims’ families. Zandile Shabangu, whose daughter Ncamisile Shange died, said Mbeje told her on the same day her daughter died and that she must go clean the blood. “The people who killed my daughter should never be allowed bail, even the ones who were given bail of R3 000 did not deserve it. Is that how much a human life costs these days, R3 000? The death of my daughter came with so much pain. On the same day she was killed, Thandaza Mbeje, came to me and said I should go and clean my daughter’s blood because it was a staining the municipal building. Both of them should remain in jail, or we are not safe,” said Shabangu. Mzamo Dlamini, a member of the ANC in the ward, alleged that the motive behind the killings was a rerun of the community vote for an ANC candidate. “The ANC has a BGM and then a community vote. On 20 August, the community vote occurred where I emerged as the main candidate for the ANC in the ward. When the names were submitted to the ANC on 23 August, Mnguni’s name suddenly appeared on the roll, which was disputed by the community which demanded a rerun. On 11 September, when the community was in the hall for the rerun, that is when the shooting happened. The purpose was to disturb the community vote, so that Mnguni’s name continues as the main candidate,” said Dlamini. Another activist, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said a project worth R30 million was to begin in March, which spelled trouble for the ward as soon as it was announced. “The party is dealing with a lot of infighting in that ward. So, when the projects were announced, including the R30 million Bhambayi Housing project and the multi-purpose centre, there were clear signs of imminent danger for key players in the party,” said the activist. EFF MP, Makoti Khawula, said the killings were once more an affirmation of the ANC’s belief that state coffers belong to it and not the people who should be given services. She said the projects earmarked for the ward were what led to the killings. “The ANC clearly believes it has power over everything and everyone, and that the government belongs to it and the people,” said Khawula. Daily News