DURBAN - Ray Nkonyeni Local Municipality deputy mayor Sibusiso Shange has pledged his support to mayor Sikhumbuzo Mqadi after three months of fierce contestation for the mayoral position. Speaking to the Daily News for the first time on Friday after agreeing to serve as Mqadi’s deputy last week, Shange said they have put everything behind them in order to focus on delivering services for the people. He said they previously worked while leading the South African Democratic Teachers’ Union in the region and did not see “why they cannot work together now.” “I have accepted to be deployed as deputy mayor under Mqadi. As both disciplined members of our movement we understand that once the ANC has given you instruction, yours is to obey and do the job. We have put everything behind us and there is no bad blood between us,“ said Shange. Mqadi said they were working very well with Shange since they took office and were not expecting any problems since they knew each other while leading SADTU in the region.  Both leaders displayed signs of unity during the launch of R92 million of town rejuvenation projects on Friday.  The mayor said the money was to rehabilitate the Nelson Mandela Drive for R38 million while R54 million would upgrade Manin Harding Road. Both roads are in Port Shepstone city centre and would be one way with added lanes to ease traffic congestion in the city centre. “Port Shepstone is the biggest city in the South Coast and attracts 2.2 million visitors a year so it is important that infrastructure like roads are always in good condition and well maintained. With these projects, we are now preparing for an influx of tourists as the government slowly eases Covid-19 regulations. We are second to Durban in terms of tourist numbers in the province,” said Mqadi. The municipality had been without a mayor and deputy for almost three months after the two both contested for the mayoral position. The vacuum was caused by the rebellion of Mqadi’s supporters after the ANC’s national executive committee recommended Shange.  Previously, Mqadi’s supporters had threatened to let the municipality slip out of the ANC’s hands rather than to allow the party to impose Shange on them. During the first sitting, the council elected a speaker. When it had to elect the mayor and deputy, the meeting collapsed. The subsequent council meeting ended without electing a mayor and deputy.  After consultation with the branches, the party’s top leadership asked Shange to settle for a deputy mayor position and allow Mqadi to take the mayoral position. Daily News