DURBAN - King Misuzulu Zulu has rejected the government’s invitation to attend the opening of the legislature as a prince. This follows the announcement by KwaZulu-Natal legislature speaker Nontembeko Boyce that the king had been invited to attend as a guest but would not deliver a speech as had been done in the past by the late King Goodwill Zwelithini. In a media briefing on Tuesday to outline the State of the Province address’s programme, the speaker revealed that the king was invited to attend but would not deliver a speech because a coronation had not yet taken place. She cited the Traditional Leadership and Governance Framework Act of 2003 as well Traditional Khoisan Leadership Act 3 of 2019, which set out the process for the recognition of kings and queens. “This procedure sets out the formal recognition of the king by the president through a notice in the Gazette, formally recognising the person identified as king, and also the issuing of a certificate of recognition to the identified person,” said the speaker. She said herself and Premier Sihle Zikalala explained this process when they visited the royal family last week. She further said, however, that the king would find an opportunity to address the legislature after the coronation, adding there was no time frame for that to happen. Royal family spokesperson Prince Africa Zulu told the Daily News on Tuesday that as much as they understood the government’s explanation, the royal family had a problem separating the king from his position. “While the explanation of the government is clear, it is still a huge challenge that the lion comes to the KZN legislature as a prince. “The laws of nature forbid it, it seems we are in a catch-22 situation. If the king goes ahead to legislature, he risks being king as nature demands that the lion must always roar. “Now we are faced with this challenge of accommodating the legislature at the expense of the crown. “It will be impossible to stop other Western traditions from dominating the Zulu nation. The king symbolises the nation as a lion, no law or situation should silence him. The king is king and he must remain the king regardless of any situation. “It is therefore my conclusion that the legislature is in no position to invite the king as all matters are still sub judice. I advise that they seek legal advice on this matter as the lion cannot be a pet,” read the statement. Asked whether the king would honour the invitation and attend the opening ceremony, the prince said that was the million-dollar question. The event would take place at Pietermaritzburg Royal Showgrounds where Zikalala will deliver the State of the Province address on Thursday. Daily News