DURBAN - South Africa’s betting operator Hollywoodbets was named as the new – and third – sponsor of the Durban July. Vodacom was the previous sponsor. The race will also enjoy a price increase of 250% over the 2021 offering and will carry a record stake of R5 million. Hollywoodbets will be sponsoring the horse-racing event with effect from July, 2. This announcement was made at a cocktail function at Hollywoodbets Greyville Racecourse on Thursday evening. The event was hosted by broadcasting personality and Hollywoodbets brand ambassador Carol Tshabalala. Guests included celebrities, influencers, sporting code personalities and dignitaries from local government and business. Durban has been the home of the prestigious Durban July event for two world wars. In 2019 the major social event injected almost R300 million in GDP to the economy. Hollywoodbets commercial manager Sandisiwe Bhengu said taking the reins of this unique event was a watershed moment for them, saying that the success of their business was built on the foundation of horse racing. “It is a huge honour for us. Now we are able to continue this legacy with the assistance of a powerful platform. We aim to be more than just a title sponsor. We align ourselves with projects we truly believe in, and the Hollywoodbets Durban July has the potential to spawn incredible opportunities and transformation,” she said. Bhengu said that the vision for this era of the Hollywoodbets Durban July was to open the thrills and benefits of the racing industry to a wider demographic. “The magnitude of this event extends way beyond just horse racing, covering tourism, entertainment, fashion and small to medium businesses. The reach and influence, both brand-wise and economically, provides employment for thousands of people.” Events and marketing executive at Gold Circle Stephen Marshall said the Durban July was perhaps the most unique South African event in the manner it has mirrored the country’s own national journey. “It has gone from strength to strength over the past 20 years because the social profile of the participants, attendees and audience have undergone transformation on a parallel path with our society as a whole. With Hollywoodbets having joined us on this epic journey we hope to continue the legacy we have built.” Daily News