DURBAN - A day after the latest crime statistics revealed KwaZulu-Natal as the leading province in cases of murder and attempted murder, at least four people were killed in Durban in separate incidents in one day. Two people were gunned down in a drive-by shooting in Inanda, while one person was killed in Tongaat, Chatsworth and Mariannhill respectively. On Friday, Police Minister Bheki Cele revealed Quarter 3 statistics for the financial year 2021/22. Umlazi ranked number one in the murder category, while Umlazi and Plessislaer completed the top five of the most murderous areas. Despite Inanda consistently facing rising murders as seen in the second and third quarters of the current financial year, the area does not appear in the top 30 of cases reported with the help of the community nor those detected as a result of police action. Subsequent to the crime stats announcement, police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said KZN law enforcement conducted random raids in the troubled Plessislaer area on Saturday. “Plessislaer is experiencing high levels of contact crimes which has claimed many lives. A total of 81 arrests were made by police. Those arrested were charged for unlawful possession of firearms, robbery, rape, attempted murder, stock theft, theft, possession of drugs, possession of dangerous weapons, dealing in liquor, malicious damage to property and other cases,” Gwala said. UKZN’s public affairs expert, Siyabonga Ntombela, said the biggest hurdle to the government’s attempts in curbing the scourge of murder was the lack of police recruitment. “The government should devise a plan to recruit law enforcement frequently, rotationally, six months per recruitment drive. The police-per-population ratio is alarming, and this would work to address that predicament. “It cannot be easy to resolve serious crime when the political head of law enforcement has infighting within his party, which results more often than not in serious crime. Perhaps a change in political power should be considered as a solution,” Ntombela said. The National Freedom Party’s Canaan Mdletshe said most of the areas in KwaZulu Natal were dealing with joblessness, and had a mistrust component in trying to curb some of the crimes. He also said the police-per-population ratio was skewed. “Most of the murders are purely related to criminals wanting a vehicle, cellphone, wallet or just plain robbery. The reality is the area is overpopulated and the majority of residents are unemployed. Over the years, these areas have seen an increase in the number of people living there, with shacks erected almost weekly. As the population increases, police numbers have not increased, thus the ratio is skewed. “There is also mistrust between the police and the community. In fact the trust has broken down to such an extent that residents would rather take the law into their own hands than reporting it to police. We have to work hard at rebuilding trust,” Mdletshe said. DA KZN spokesperson on community safety, Sharon Hoosen, said the report from the minister was devoid of solutions. “We need crime figures with solid solutions that will hold both him, the MEC and her department to account. We need crime stats that include a conviction rate report so that there is a clear message that crime does not pay. “Public confidence in the SAPS is also at an all-time low, particularly after the July 2021 insurrection. Months later, the people of KZN are still waiting to be told whether those behind the anarchy and looting will be arrested,” Hoosen said. Daily News