Durban — Merebank residents believe they have found a way to minimise the negative effects of chemical gas coming from industries around their neighbourhood. In an evacuation seminar organised by the Merewest Community Foundation (MCF) at the weekend, residents were supplied with spekboom plant seedlings to plant at their homes to minimise the effects of gas inhalation during a gas leak at chemical companies. Apart from being taught about evacuation plans during disasters, residents were taught about the spekboom plant, which absorb carbon dioxide. MCF chairperson Premilla Deonath told the Daily News on Monday that spekboom plants would go a long way towards minimising the effects of harmful gas. “I think we have found a magic tree to protect our families, especially kids, from inhaling gas leaks in the area. We have learned that the plants absorb carbon dioxide day and night, so we would like all Merebank residents to have them in their offices and homes day and night," said Deonath. Describing the indigenous plant, she said it was a “carbon sponge” and stored solar energy to perform photosynthesis at night. She said the plant was easy to grow and could live for up to 200 years, and was drought resistant. Deonath said that apart from absorbing carbon dioxide the plant was highly nutritious and could be eaten by animals and humans, and was also used to treat sore throats and minimise fatigue. The seminar was attended by schools, companies, NGOs, NPOs, the community policing forum, SAPS, eThekwini Fire Department and other stakeholders. Wentworth and Merebank residents have for years been complaining about the health hazard posed by chemical industries, which they say are causing lung disease. Residents also staged several protests against the polluted air coming from factories, demanding gas emission measures by the government. There are gas and oil refinery plants such as Sapref and Engen in the area. Earlier this year several people were rushed to hospital with breathing issues after thick smoke from a factory fire covered the area. Daily News