Durban — With nominations for candidates to replace the DA’s outgoing party caucus leader Nicole Graham closing on Friday, four councillors have emerged as front runners for the position. Party insiders told the Daily News on Thursday that current acting caucus leader Mzamo Billy has been nominated alongside party whip Thabani Mthethwa, ward 33 (Glenwood) councillor Sakhile Mngadi, as well as ward 36 (Durban North) councillor Shontel de Boer. All the candidates confirmed their nominations except Mthethwa, who said he would only know on Friday whether he had been nominated. Billy and De Boer sounded confident and excited at their nominations, saying they would make a formal announcement on Monday. Mngadi also confirmed, but did not want to divulge details, saying he would be in a good position on Monday after the party’s formal announcement. Candidates are also expected to launch their campaigns by canvassing support from the 59 councillors in eThekwini. The paper also learnt that besides being voted (for) by councillors, a new leader would also have to get the nod from the top six officials. Graham stepped down as party caucus leader in eThekwini last month, and will also resign as a councillor at the end of this month to further her studies in Australia. She was first elected as a councillor in 2011 at the age of 21, and was elected caucus leader in 2018, taking over from Zwakele Mncwango, who had gone to the legislature after his re-election as party leader in the province. Graham was re-elected as caucus leader after last year’s local government election. In March last year, she contested the DA provincial leader position but lost to Francois Rogers. She also contested the mayor’s position but lost to Mxolisi Kaunda. Among the councillors expected to be nominated were Sithembiso Ngema, who is currently deputy provincial chairperson and provincial spokesperson, but he has declined the nomination. He contested against Graham last year but lost. Explaining the process last week, party provincial chairperson Dean Macpherson said the party would announce publicly the candidates on Monday, and the election would take place next Monday, after which the new leader would be announced. The new leader would be expected to take a seat on the city’s executive committee. If Billy or Mthethwa gets elected, the party would have to appoint new members to the Exco. Daily News