Durban — ActionSA in KwaZulu-Natal has allayed fears of a leadership crisis following the sudden resignation of provincial chairperson Musa Kubheka two weeks ago. In an interview with the Daily News on Thursday, the party provincial secretary Bongani Caluza dismissed rumours of a leadership crisis saying the party was functioning well despite the resignation of the chairperson. Caluza said the party was not built around one person and it was aware that leaders would come and go. “We have no leadership crisis so there is also no leadership vacuum. “The party is moving ahead and launching branches every week. “The party founders did a good job by not building it around one person especially here in KwaZulu-Natal and we have capable leaders within our provincial executive committee which is tasked with running the party under my leadership as the secretary,” said Caluza. He said they would not rush in filling Kubheka’s position as the party was not dependent on the chairperson to do its work, adding that he was not interested in the position and was fine with the current position which keeps him on the ground with branches. Caluza, who has been a councillor for 15 years with the IFP and the EFF, was born and raised in Highflats under the Harry Gwala region. Within three months of his appointment as ActionSA provincial secretary, he managed to launch branches in all 11 regions. He also announced that the party would launch its provincial manifesto for the 2024 general elections in a few months’ time, saying more details would be revealed at a later stage. Kubheka was in the position for only six months after taking over from Dr Makhosi Khoza, who was removed by the party earlier this year and then subsequently fired from the party. National spokesperson Lerato Ngobeni last week said that Kubheka voluntarily stepped back as the provincial chairperson, saying he cited his family commitment and the pressure of work as a caucus leader of eThekwini ActionSA councillors as reasons for resignation. Kubheka among other things cited the lack of experience for his resignation after six months in the position, saying he was new in politics and felt that ActionSA needed a more experienced leader than he was. He said he regarded the chairpersonship as a challenge because it came at a time when there were two years left before the 2024 general elections. He vowed to work hard and said his party would play a major role in unseating the ANC in the province. His words pointed out he was looking beyond 2024 and sounded optimistic about growing the party and would criss-cross the province, launching branches. Kubheka is a pastor under ANC MP Bishop Vusi Dube’s eThekwini Community Church. Daily News