Durban — The eThekwini Municipality is trying to resolve the issue of unpaid utility bills that saw the disconnection of electricity to seven schools in Phoenix, north of Durban, last week. One of the schools, Phoenix Secondary, owed the city R3 million in utility bills. Other affected schools were Phoenix Pioneer School, Stonebridge Primary, Clareridge Primary, Granmore Primary, Foresthaven Secondary and Northdene Secondary. The DA KZN Spokesperson on Education and MPL, Dr Imran Keeka, said it was known that many schools could no longer afford to pay their municipal rates accounts due to dwindling fee payments. Keeka said the situation was aggravated by the schools currently being ranked quintile 5 – meaning that they received reduced funding from the Department of Education despite the school population profiles showing that learners come from severely disadvantaged socio-economic backgrounds. Keeka said the Department of Education (DoE) should consider negotiating with eThekwini and other municipalities to grant special rates to these schools. Keeka said recommendations to the DoE had been ignored to date. These include the installations of power-saving LED bulbs, identifying and fixing water leaks, and installing solar panels where possible. KZN Education spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said the department was dealing with the matter and held a meeting with the municipality in April. Mahlambi said a circular was sent to schools on how the matter would be managed. IFP councillor Dr Jonathan Annipen said a motion by the party to hold disconnections was tabled and carried in June. Annipen said teaching and learning were interrupted. He called for a meeting with officials from the city and school principals. Annipen said the decision to disconnect was callous, disingenuous and inconsiderate. eThekwini Municipality mayor Mxolisi Kaunda told the executive committee that the city had a credit control policy and needed to collect revenue. Kaunda said the city did not take a resolution not to disconnect schools. “We want to work with schools. We sent a message to schools to meet with us. The Department of Education says they are section 21 schools which means they are given budgets to pay for water and electricity. When we approach the department they say they have nothing to do with payment. We disconnect whoever owes us but when you come to us and say these are our challenges we can discuss it. Councillors need to advise schools to go to the city revenue section and make payment arrangements,” Kaunda said. Daily News