Durban — The KwaZulu-Natal Liquor Authority must regulate taverns and owners must beef up security, said Acting MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Jomo Sibiya. He conducted an in loco inspection of Samukelisiwe Tavern and restaurant with provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi and the local leadership. On Saturday night, two armed men entered the liquor establishment and opened fire at the patrons. Two people died at the scene, two others died in hospital and eight others sustained serious gunshot wounds. Mkhwanazi said investigators took two people in for questioning and recovered exhibits that could be linked to the shooting. “We have arrested two people allegedly involved in this case,” he said. #sapsKZN Acting MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison Jomo Sibiya and Provincial Commissioner Lieutenant General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi visited the crime scene at Sweetwaters where four people were killed and eight others were injured. ML pic.twitter.com/UtRMWJhslD Sibiya said such shootings could not be allowed to continue in the country, where each weekend people are killed in taverns where they are supposed to enjoy themselves and socialise freely. “The killing of one person is too many. It is continuing unabated. Some crimes are decreasing in Sweetwaters but murder is on the increase here,” he said. Sibiya said the area had a population of 300 000 and was geographically large, and was served by a single police station, SAPS Plessislaer. He said the area had 168 taverns. “It is time that the government steps in and deals with the issue of alcohol. A number of these murders were in taverns or drinking holes. Alcohol must not drive people or be the source of murder,” he said. Sibiya said the KZN Liquor Authority was responsible for regulating taverns and bottle stores. He called for liquor outlets to be categorised and have a particular level of security. He said he would raise these issues at the next cabinet meeting, and called on tavern owners to be strict and to search patrons for firearms and weapons before they entered their premises, and raised concerns that the shooters in Sweetwaters had driven to the establishment, and walked in without being searched. “When does the liquor board say it is enough and we cannot issue more licences? “They continue issuing licences. The government must stamp its authority so people feel (its) … bite. “A state without authority is a useless state. The state rules must be felt. If we do not do this our children will inherit something bad,” he said. Sibiya said police could not be in each and every tavern. #sapsKZN Acting MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison Jomo Sibiya, PC Lt Gen Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi and entourage met at Plessislaer SAPS for a briefing and will proceed to Sweetwaters, Samkelisiwe Tavern where 4 people were killed and 8  sustained injuries on Saturday. ML pic.twitter.com/VCuYXCaFjk Mkhwanazi said the inspected premises had one entrance. “On the left is a bottle store and in the middle a car wash. On the right is a restaurant and tavern attached, all owned by the same person.” He said the rules governing the restaurant were different from the rules governing the tavern. The KZN Liquor Authority condemned all acts of violence and killings within licensed liquor outlets, said acting chief executive Bheki Mbanjwa. He said the compliance and enforcement team had visited the outlet and found the owner of the premises in possession of a valid liquor licence. Mbanjwa said a further internal investigation will be embarked upon to determine if there were any breaches of the liquor licence conditions by the owner of the outlet (licence holder). “Licence applicants are required in terms of the Liquor Licensing Act to submit a detailed security plan with a written representation in terms of the measures to be taken by them to provide security for both inside the proposed premise, as well as within a radius of five metres outside of the proposed premises,” Mbanjwa said. Upon the granting of the application, licence holders are further required to ensure that firearms are not permitted within their premises as part of their licence conditions. Daily News