Durban — A Clairwood businessman and two men employed as inspectors for a private security company have been indicted to appear in the Durban High Court on Thursday, July 21. The men have been charged with kidnapping and the murder of security guard Loyiso Rasta Mbidana in September 2021. They also face an additional charge of defeating or obstructing the administration of justice. Thysen Naganna, 32, of Isipingo; Romalen Govender, 31, of Chatsworth; and Sagren Mariah, 49, of Queensburgh, are at the Department of Correctional Services – Westville, awaiting trial. Mariah is the manager of a property in Clairwood from where he runs a trucking business. Naganna and Govender were employed at a security company. The company provided security guards for hire to Mariah. Mbidana resided in Umlazi and worked as a guard at the truck depot. According to the indictment, in September 2021 in Clairwood, the accused unlawfully and intentionally deprived Mbidana of his freedom of movement and intentionally killed him in circumstances where the murder was planned or premeditated. In addition, the indictment says between September 28 and October 5, 2021, the accused unlawfully and with intent to defeat or obstruct the course of justice sanitised the crime scene of possible DNA evidence. The indictment further stated that copper cables were allegedly taken from the property and Mariah believed that Mbidana was responsible. This angered Mariah and he decided to allegedly kidnap, torture and kill the deceased. To this end, he allegedly enlisted the assistance of Naganna and Govender. On the night of the incident, Govender is alleged to have removed the deceased from the site at which he was posted and transported him to the depot in Clairwood where he met Naganna. They allegedly proceeded to assault Mbidana with a baseball bat and allegedly detained him against his will in the depot. Some time thereafter Mariah arrived at the site. It is alleged that Mbidana was bound, beaten with weapons and made to drink an unknown toxin before the owner of the security company was contacted to remove Mbidana. It is alleged that Mbidana was dumped near the Glebelands Hostel where he lived. Mbidana managed to crawl home and notified his family of what happened. Mbidana died the following day after his family admitted him to Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital. A post-mortem report compiled by Dr Lindani Nyawose noted the cause of death as consistent with poisoning and blunt force trauma. Brighton Beach SAPS’ Detective Warrant Officer Rudolph Grobler said Mbidana declared to others that the accused allegedly used pliers to remove his teeth and a part of his upper lip. Grobler said when he visited the crime scene he noticed that the building was cleaned and there were no traces of blood. Daily News