Durban — The day before the trial against the men charged with the murder of Sindiso Magaqa, among other offences, is set to begin in the Pietermaritzburg High Court, the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) in KwaZulu-Natal demanded justice for Magaqa. In a statement, the ANCYL said it was extremely perturbed by the unreasonable delay of the long-awaited court case of the brutal assassination of the former secretary-general of the ANCYL. Magaqa was shot while parking his Mercedes-Benz at his home in uMzimkhulu after attending a meeting in July 2017. He later died in hospital. “Notwithstanding our legitimate proposition that the irrational delay of this case confirms the denial of justice for comrade Sindiso Magaqa, the supposedly healing wounds for comrade Sindiso Magaqa’s family cuts deeper when justice does not prevail for their loved one,” the statement read. The ANCYL in KZN said it was convinced that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) dismally failed to discharge its legal responsibilities to ensure that this case was being dealt with expeditiously. If this continued to be the order of the day, ANCYL KZN would only be left with the option of taking on the NPA toe-to-toe. “It is our unapologetic demand that this case should not be adjourned further. A court trial must continue so to enable the public to know these evil murderers who took comrade Sindiso Magaqa’s life and reasons thereof,” the ANCYL said. “The ANCYL in KZN made a gruesome discovery that so far, four men have been put behind bars for the murder of comrade Sindiso Magaqa. We are hoping that these suspects will subsequently expose the actual murderers who gave them instructions. We wish to state categorically that we are often on the side of victims. Hence, even in this case, we are on the side of the Magaqa family.” “Political killings remain one of our undesirable problems in KwaZulu-Natal. The only way we can end them is by exposing those who are behind it and send them to rot in jail,” the ANCYL continued. The ANCYL also said that commissions of enquiry would not put the quagmire to an end, and they only waste the state resources that should be channelled towards servicing the people of KZN. Today (Wednesday), the trial against the men charged with the murder of Sindiso Magaqa, among other offences, is set to begin in the Pietermaritzburg High Court. Sbonelo Myeza, Mbulelo Mpofana, Mlungisi Ncalane and Sibusiso Ncengwa are charged with conspiracy to commit murder, murder, attempted murder, and malicious injury to property, and charges of unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition, one being a prohibited firearm. NPA KZN spokesperson Natasha Ramkisson-Kara said the trial was set down for the period of July 18 to August 12, 2022. Daily News