Durban — Prominent businessman and AmaZulu football club owner Sandile Zungu visited former president Jacob Zuma in Nkandla to seek his advice. The ANC chairperson-hopeful flew to KwaDakwadunuse on Thursday in a helicopter to meet Zuma and update him on his recent wedding and his decision to respond to the call from branches nominating him to contest in the coming provincial elective conference expected to sit in July. Zungu, who has been endorsed by some branches in KZN, is running for the chairmanship of the ANC in the province. Speaking to the Daily News after his meeting with the Nkandla elder, Zungu said that his visit was part of consultations with some leaders in the province. “(Former) President Zuma is one of the most influential political figures in the Zulu nation. I have come here today to visit the old man, and to also inform him that I am now a married man. “My relationship with Zuma is a long-standing one. I would have loved to have had him at my wedding. However, the conditions of his parole would not permit it. So it was important for me to come here to officially tell him that I have settled with my wife. “On a personal level, it’s an honour and privilege to come and share my excitement with him. I know he will advise me on how to be a better husband and family man,” said Zungu. The Umlazi-born businessman threw his hat in the ring for the provincial race to lead the ANC, arguing that he could no longer watch from the sidelines how things are being mismanaged and going wrong, when he felt he could fix them. He added that this was one of the reasons that he decided to switch to politics. “When I was approached to consider standing for the leadership position of the ANC in KZN, I visited, among others, (former) president Zuma, Willies Mchunu, Mike Mabuyakhulu as well as Zweli Mkhize. These are some of the most influential figures in the ANC. “I also spoke to inkosi uNyazi Lwe Zulu uShembe and sought their advice and blessings. The reception from these figures was warm. But this happened during the early stages of the campaign when nominations were not yet opened. “Now that the race has started, we decided to again visit key figures to update them on our stance, and to seek their wisdom and blessings as well as their assistance. Zuma is a big political figure who has worked hard for the movement. He is equally concerned about the decline of the ANC, and we are trying to seek ways to revive the movement.” Zuma, who was in high spirits, expressed his appreciation at being visited by Zungu and said that the ANC in the province needed to reconnect with traditional and religious leaders so that it may unite the province. Zungu expressed gratitude to the former head of state and said that he was humbled by him. He said that he would be visiting chiefs of the Zulu clan and religious leaders in the province to inform them of his decision to contest the provincial elective conference. Zungu added that he would also seek an audience with King Misuzulu. Expressing his vision for the ANC, Zungu said it was important for the province not to enter into party factions, as they were a recipe for failure. “Initially, I declined when I was approached by some comrades who said that I should consider availing myself. However, after some people I have the utmost respect for approached me, I could not say no because I realised that, indeed, the ANC is in trouble and we need to revive it,” he said. Daily News