Durban — The ANC Youth League (ANCYL) in KwaZulu-Natal welcomes and congratulates the newly elected provincial executive committee. Over the weekend, the ANC in KZN held its 9th provincial conference at the Olive Convention Centre in Durban. More than 1 600 delegates from various wards and regions in KZN descended on Durban for the conference. In a statement, the ANCYL in KZN said it acknowledged the job performed by the recent former ANC PEC for organising a successful, peaceful and remarkable conference. Its efforts in organising the conference have attracted a great deal of praise. “Furthermore, we extend our warmest congratulations to the newly elected provincial executive committee (PEC) of the ANC in KZN,” the ANCYL in KZN said. Siboniso Duma was elected chairperson with Nomagugu Simelane as his deputy. Bheki Mtolo was elected as secretary and Sipho Hlomuka as his deputy while Dr Ntuthuko Mahlaba was elected treasurer. The ANCYL in KZN said among other victories, current leaders of the ANCYL were also elected to the PEC. Provincial Congress Preparatory Committee co-ordinator Mafika Mndebele was elected to the PEC. National Youth Task Team spokesperson Sizophila Mkhize was also elected to be part of the PEC. “We wish to exclusively express our heartfelt congratulations to these two ANCYL leaders. It is often the ambition of the ANCYL to see its members/leaders being absorbed by the ANC,” the ANCYL in KZN said. It said the conference was held under the theme: “Unity, renewal to serve the people of KZN”. The ANCYL of KZN conceptualised this theme as a commitment by the ANC in KZN to first practically renew itself to enable it to enhance its revolutionary capacity to advance social cohesion and human solidarity, it said. “ANCYL KZN wishes to remind all ANC members in KZN that unity of the ANC is sacrosanct and that cannot be overemphasised. The strength of the ANC lies in its wisdom to unite its members. “We make a clarion call that all lobby groups and caucuses which were established towards the 9th provincial conference should be dissolved with immediate effect. We should all rally behind the newly elected leadership and focus on reclaiming the lost ground in the province. It is common knowledge that the ANC in KZN is on the receiving end of electoral support that is gradually declining. The new PEC should establish comprehensive plans within the twinkle of an eye to resolve this great challenge,” the ANCYL in KZN said. “ANCYL KZN wishes to congratulate the entire new ANC KZN PEC once again by reminding it that leadership comes with numerous unforeseen challenges. We wish them all the best.” Daily News