Durban — Frustrated Nongoma residents picketed outside the Olive Convention Centre after the Department of Education’s decision to close a primary school that was built by residents using mud. Last month, the Department of Education in KwaZulu-Natal announced that it would close the Emagcekeni Primary School in KwaNongoma, saying it was not viable as it had 87 learners enrolled. The department said it would relocate the learners to the neighbouring Dongothule Primary School, which was underutilised. Speaking to the Daily News on Saturday, some of the parents outside the Olive Convention Centre, where the ANC KZN was holding its ninth provincial conference, said they built the school 16 years ago because the provincial government had failed them, and their children were being raped while walking a long distance to school. Peace and Stability activist Siyanda Dlamini said he had travelled from Nongoma with other community members to appeal to the ANC heads of departments to heed their call for the school not to be abandoned as it had become an important structure for the development of the area. “We had even received sponsorship from various companies that were willing to build the school. However, our government insisted that the school must be closed. We felt that the provincial government was letting us down. Because the roads in the area are inaccessible and I am worried that if the school is closed, the learners will not be able to travel to the other school because it is far away and buses won’t be able to reach the kids from their various areas where they live due to roads being inaccessible.” Dlamini said that, like other communities, they also wanted the government to ensure that the community had its own school so that their children can learn within the area. “The community members are saying that Dongothule Primary School, which the government has said is the alternative school they can use, is far from their community and the residents wanted their own school as part of infrastructure development within their area so that they too may also take pride in the improvement of their community. “When it rains, it means our children will not be able to go to school because we have no bridges or proper roads in the area. In addition, how will the government be able to provide and sustain bussing our children if they’re failing to even build a school? “They say we have no right to build our own school, but they are failing to do it for us. We ask that they assist us and do as we request as the community that has voted for them.” Dlamini said as the community representatives they had demonstrated outside the ANC conference in Durban so that the leaders and government officials can hear their plea, as they never engage with the community. KZN Education spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said the department was prioritising the safety of the learners by ensuring that the facilities they used were in good condition. Daily News