Pretoria - Members of the Zulu royal family and regiment continued to pledge support to the disputed King Misuzulu kaZwelithini who is facing ongoing opposition from some within his family.  This time around, his uncle, Prince Mbonisi and others have brought an urgent application before the High court in Pretoria to halt the official coronation of King Misuzulu. The coronation was initially planned for May 28, however, it was postponed after the devastating floods that claimed over 400 lives in KwaZulu-Natal in April. Misuzulu was named by the majority of the royal family members as a preferred successor to King Goodwill Zwelithini who passed away over a year ago. He has also been recognised by the state after President Cyril Ramaphosa issued a certificate of recognition and authorised all due benefits including budget and VIP protection. The royal family is yet to announce the new date. Prince Mbonisi who has been disputing King Misuzulu’s right to kingship, has lost several cases but vowed not to give up. In his latest bid to halt the coronation, he attacked King Misuzulu's character alleging that he was a drug user, drunkard and committed incest. Ziyeke! zibulalane..zinamakhand'axegayo...#Zulu regiments are chanting outside the high court in Pretoria as the arguments over the coronation of King Misuzulu are underway. @SundayTribuneSA pic.twitter.com/0rhuoyoCGh However, his claims were dismissed by the king in a response to the application to bar him from taking over as king. On Tuesday, the high court in Pretoria heard arguments from the lawyers representing Prince Mbonisi and the King. Advocate Thabani Masuku SC who represents Prince Mbonisi told the court that the coronation should be halted because it would endorse a process that was being challenged in court. He said the coronation was the last step and if allowed, it would pose challenges for all parties. He further argued that the allegations that King Misuzulu was a drug user, drunkard and committed incest, would have not become the subject of media attention had the matter been handled with due diligence. He maintained that the matter should not be struck off. Advocate Griffiths Madonsela who represents the King opened by dismissing the allegations made by Mbonisi, arguing that the matter was not urgent as it did not meet the requirements to be treated as such. He asked the court to dismiss the application. Outside the court, the Zulu regiment paraded through Madiba Street chanting songs in support of King Misuzulu. The regiments were bused from Nongoma where the king resides to show solidarity. Royal members showed a united front with various powerful palaces of the royal family present.  Prince Africa of Onkweni led a delegation of senior princes known as royal big five that consist of Prince Chris of Egazini, Prince Nkosinathi of Engudwini, Prince Gibizizwe and Prince Menziwethu of Osuthu.  Clad in Arabic-styled thobe the princes clapped hands occasionally as Advocate Madonsela made arguments in favour of King Misuzulu.    At some stage police had to temporarily close the busy street in the Pretoria CBD as Amabutho clad in full Zulu traditional regalia chanted outside the high court building. Members of the royal family packed the courtroom listening to the arguments which were heard virtually. The court continues. SUNDAY TRIBUNE