Durban — Just days after being elected ANC KwaZulu-Natal chairperson, opportunists have created a fake Facebook account purporting to be Siboniso Duma’s. On Tuesday, ANC KZN said the ANC KZN condemned the fake Facebook account that has been floating on social media platforms purporting to be belonging to its newly elected chairperson. “We further place it on record that our ANC provincial chairperson does not have a social media page or account, and therefore the information contained in that account is fabricated, misleading and devoid of any truth,” ANC KZN said in a statement. “The unauthorised creation of a Facebook account under the name of Cde Duma is malicious and is just another dubious act by the unscrupulous elements of society to confuse. The ANC strongly cautions the public not to fall for such ill will.” ANC KZN further advised the public to refrain from entertaining any communication or exchange from any suspicious accounts. Newly appointed provincial secretary Bheki Mtolo said: “The deceptive account keeps resurfacing in the public domain and misleading many innocent and vulnerable South Africans. Finally, we wish to caution those responsible for spreading fake news to refrain from such negative deeds and unpatriotic tendencies.” In recent months, other political figures and the eThekwini Municipality have been battling fake Facebook accounts. Last month, the uMhlathuze Municipality warned about a fake Facebook page and WhatsApp number used to con people, purported to be mayor Xolani Ngwezi. The municipality said that the Facebook page was created using the mayor’s name as “Xolane Mashimane Ifp”. “The culprit is pretending to be mayor Ngwezi and is privately messaging and asking people to deposit some money,” the municipality said. “The mayor would like to distance himself from this fake Facebook page and WhatsApp number used to con the people.” In April, the eThekwini Municipality warned the public about a fake municipal Facebook account. The municipality said it had reported the fake account to Facebook. The municipality said the difference between the two accounts was that: “The official city Facebook account has over 355 000 followers and posts information about the municipality and its programme to update residents. The fake account does not feature municipal content and carries trending news. “While the fake account has the same logo and spelling as the official account, the public is urged to note the spelling of the correct Facebook account which is eThekwini Municipality.” In February this year, deputy mayor Philani Mavundla warned the public about a fake Facebook account purporting to belong to him and promising people jobs. The deputy mayor said there was a person on Facebook who goes by the name Philani Mavundla who posted cleaning job opportunities, adding that the person used his name in his profile to look like he was Mavundla, the deputy mayor. Additionally, ANC KZN had to open a new Facebook account after its account was hacked and taken over by an unknown individual/s who started posting viral videos instead of ANC KZN-related content. Daily News