Durban — The much-talked-about Hollywoodbets Durban July event ticked all the perfection boxes, from the fashion, the top hospitality from all the marquees to the race itself – the event catered for everyone and everything. The glitz and glam were there and the who’s who of the game all attended. The event went smoothly and there was no drama or fights. The event was last held during 2019 pre-Covid-19 and this year was the race’s official comeback after all the regulations were lifted. The theme was “Show me the honey” and everyone understood what the theme entailed. The event attracted people from all over the country and the international racing community. Top business people also graced the event. The event not only uplifted the city’s economy but also helped in decreasing the unemployment rate. At least 7 000 people were employed during the course of the event. Sparkling Water won everyone’s hearts when he took the first prize in the race, ridden by jockey Smanga Khumalo from KwaMashu. Khumalo could not contain his excitement as he said that the process of training Sparkling Water was not easy but rewarding. “It has been a really hard journey of preparation, but it helped that I have a very strong connection with her. I always tell her that she is a master, and I’m not sure if talking to her makes a difference but she always excels after our little conversations,” said Khumalo expressing his love for the horse. Margot Fonteyn, who was the youngest employee and was serving in one of the marquees, was grateful for being given an opportunity to work at such an event. Fonteyn finished matric last year and could not go to university due to lack of funding. He said it was really hard staying at home and making ends meet; working at the July was life-changing. Mollo Rampedi said he had been consistently coming to the Durban July since 2007 and was happy that the event was back. Rampedi said he would travel from Pretoria to Durban every July just to experience the fun of the city and, he said when Covid-19 hit he felt like life was boring. “Life is about to start making sense once more. Durban is such an amazing city with amazing people and opportunities. Experiencing the Durban July had always been something I looked forward to and I am glad the event is back,” said Rampedi. Veteran sports broadcaster Robert Marawa said this Durban July had a different feel to it this time around because it was hosted by a company that had more experience in horse betting and they knew what customers needed. Marawa expressed excitement about the main event as Sparkling Water was his favourite horse. “Everyone showed up and looked their best. I also think that the Hollywoodbets partnership with the Durban July is the best one yet. They know more about betting and horse racing than anyone in the game. The event is amazing and just seeing everyone in unity because of one event is amazing,” said Marawa. Daily News