Durban — A 24-year-old man alleged to have attacked a woman he knew, stabbing her in both hands and raping her, has been evaluated as unfit to stand trial. This emerged in the Pinetown Magistrate's Court on Tuesday when the matter was adjourned to next month. Arrangements were made for another mental evaluation. The victim was in her home last year when she was allegedly attacked by the accused. It is alleged that he held her by her neck, pushed her to the floor, tore off her clothes with a knife and then raped her. In court, the State indicated that a mental assessment report from RK Khan Hospital confirmed that the accused was not fit to stand trial. “We request a provisional date to prepare paperwork for the accused to get a bed at Fort Napier,” said the State. In October the accused made his first appearance in court. The State indicated that it would be opposing bail and also required that he provide an alternative address should he be granted bail. The following month when the accused appeared in court the State was no longer opposed to bail and he was granted bail of R3 000. His bail conditions were that he move to an alternative address and stay away from Zwelibomvu until the matter was finalised. During the application, the accused indicated that he intended to plead guilty. At that time the court heard that the victim had pointed him out to police after he had been apprehended by the community for allegedly breaking into the home of another woman and trying to rape her. In April the matter was adjourned more than twice because the accused did not arrive. In May he appeared in court and the case was adjourned for further investigation as DNA and further witness statements were outstanding. Last month a warrant of arrest was issued for the accused, who was not in court. He appeared in court two weeks ago. It was then that the defence said a mental assessment was necessary as his family had said he had mental health problems. On Tuesday acting Magistrate Mkhize adjourned the matter and said that arrangements were being made to have the accused admitted to Fort Napier “for a proper mental evaluation”. Daily News