Durban — Police are still searching for the firearm used by the police officer who allegedly shot and killed his wife in Inchanga township last week. Mthokozisi Nene, a police officer based at Hammarsdale police station, briefly appeared at the Camperdown Magistrate’s Court, west of Durban, on Monday where the State said it would oppose his bail application. Outlining her reasons for opposing bail, State prosecutor Nokubongwa Mahlaba said the firearm that the suspect allegedly used to kill his wife had not yet been recovered. Another reason cited by the State was that the accused would influence or intimidate witnesses familiar with him. The case was postponed to July 13 for a formal bail hearing. The case, which the State said had caused fear and outrage in the western areas of Durban, was also attended by Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza; SACP provincial chairperson, James Nxumalo; social workers and local anti-gender-based violence activists who picketed outside the court to oppose bail. Addressing picketers outside court, Khoza said under normal circumstances people would run to the police for safety, but it was a cause for concern that police were themselves found to be on the wrong side of the law, causing the public to lose confidence in the police. “We are always concerned when women are killed, but we are more concerned when they are being killed by police who are supposed to protect all of us. We wonder how this police officer will ever be expected to protect the citizens if he could not protect his wife, which is why we are calling for a life sentence should he be found guilty and appeal to the authorities that he should not be given parole,” said the MEC. Khoza said the two daughters, aged 10 and 12, left behind by their mother would be taken care of by the department for financial and other needs. The Daily News also learnt that the officer was moved from Msunduzi police station at KwaXimba village to Hammarsdale after allegedly shooting and injuring his colleague. The victim’s sister, Nontuthuko Msomi, said Nene was a “trigger-happy policeman”, saying he shot and killed a 17-year-old boy a few years ago and was acquitted after claiming that the boy tried to grab his firearm. The officer allegedly shot his wife, Thobeka Msomi-Nene, last week at their home in Inchanga. The wife was a teacher at Inchanga Primary School. The victim’s sister said she was found dead by her daughter, 12, who had come to ask for lunch money. She described the suspect as an abusive man and said her sister had left the marriage to live with them in 2020 but returned to the suspect’s house after they reconciled. Daily News