Durban — Family, friends and the education fraternity celebrated the birthday of Vincentia Maduna, who turned 100 on Tuesday. Maduna was born on July 19, 1922, and is a retired teacher who taught in schools in KwaZulu-Natal. Speaking to the Daily News on Tuesday and reacting to her milestone, the soft-spoken centenarian said: “I’m growing older with the ones I love. They love having a gogo around.” Maduna’s niece, Nokuthula Gumede, 64, said they had an entire day of festivities and pampering planned for Maduna. Gumede said God blessed them with Maduna as she did not have children of her own. She added that on Tuesday morning they were in church for mass. Maduna wanted to go to church and the family also wanted her to be around churchgoers because they felt she was a bit lonely. She spends most of her time alone. “At 65 I will retire and keep her company,” Gumede said. She said churchgoers sang for Maduna and she danced all the way to the door. “After church, we had cake with church members and the pastor,” Gumede said. “Thereafter, she relaxed because she was booked for a massage at Mangwanani Spa at midday. “At 6pm, there will be dinner with the family. “We want her to be happy. She is a sweet lady, hard-working and a fast walker,” Gumede said. “She’s just everything. So we’re doing for her what she did for us. That’s probably why God has kept her.” Jokingly she said that Maduna even knew about social media. Maduna served her community as a teacher with distinction at Mashiyane Primary School in KwaCeza and KwaZondela Primary School in Ulundi. KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu and head of department Nkosinathi Ngcobo extended their heartfelt gratitude to Maduna for her dedication to duty and loyal service to the education fraternity. “It is only by God’s grace that Gogo Maduna celebrates her centennial year. It is only good deeds and a noble profession like teaching that qualify her to enjoy excellent health and longevity. God bless her to see many more happy years and allow her to share her wisdom with the younger generations,” a statement from the department read. Daily News