Durban — As the much-anticipated KwaZulu-Natal ANC elective conference draws closer, Human Settlements and Public Works MEC Jomo Sibiya has emerged as the front-runner for a top-five position in the provincial hierarchy. Sibiya, who hails from Nquthu under the Inkosi Bhambatha region, has been nominated by his region for the treasurer position. His name is expected to be revealed by the end of this week when the ANC releases to the public the nominated leaders. Sibiya’s region includes Greytown, Msinga, Dundee and Nquthu, where he was born and raised. His nomination was confirmed by regional secretary Lucky Khumalo, who told the Daily News on Tuesday that the region wanted him in the top five. “Yes, it’s true, we have nominated him for the treasurer position, but we are flexible for any other position as long as he makes it to the top five. “We will settle for any other position depending on our engagement with other regions we have been lobbying,” said Khumalo. Sibiya just laughed and said nominating leaders for positions was the work of the branches, which should not be disturbed by the people nominated. “Let us allow internal processes of the ANC and branches to do their work,” said Sibiya. His chances were also boosted by the Moses Mabhida region, which said it was open to engagement with the Inkosi Bhambatha region for Sibiya’s nomination since it had not nominated anyone for the treasurer position. Moses Mabhida regional secretary Samora Ndlovu said his branches only nominated the current chairperson, Sihle Zikalala, and the current secretary, Mdumiseni Ntuli, to retain their positions respectively, as well as Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu to deputise Zikalala, saying they left other positions for engagement with other regions. Ndlovu, who has formally resigned from the Richmond Local Municipality to take the regional secretary position on a full-time basis, confirmed that they were in discussion with the Inkosi Bhambatha region to back Sibiya’s nomination. “Our branches only nominated for the three positions and left the two for discussion with other regions, so we are open for persuasion by other regions to run away from slate politics to forge unity and balanced representation,” said Ndlovu. Sibiya is expected to benefit from the regions that initially wanted former eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede to be elected to the treasurer position, but had to drop her because of the governing party’s step-aside rule that forbids members who are facing corruption charges to contest party positions until they are cleared by the courts. Daily News