Durban — Sbonelo Mzimela, 22, is appealing for financial assistance after being accepted at Clark University in Massachusetts, US, for a master’s degree in international development, community and environment. Mzimela, who hails from kwaMancinza in Ntuzuma, outside Durban, currently holds an International Relations honours degree, majoring in international political economy from the University of KwaZulu-Natal, is due to leave for the US in August. He received a merit-based scholarship from UKZN, but it only covers 60% of the costs, which will be tuition only. “I need at least $35 000, which is around R600 000. I would have asked for help a long time ago, but I only received a response two weeks ago, even though I had applied at the beginning of the year.” He was expected to take care of his accommodation, health insurance, books, his visa and flights. He had been applying for bursaries and loans, but without any luck, he said. Mzimela said he could not get to the US without financial assistance as making ends meet was already hard, because both his parents were security guards and there was not much they could offer. “Even growing up was hard as the job market they are in was inconsistent. One would lose a job, leaving the other one to take care of all the bills, and vice versa.” Mzimela said this meant that this degree was going to be a chance for him to give back to the community. He said he could have used his honours degree to apply for jobs, but that was also hard, hence he felt this master’s degree was vital. “This master’s degree is not only about my personal development. My main goal is to foster sustainable development, promote social cohesion and social resilience, inclusion and peace,” Mzimela said. “I am passionate about social progress and working for the common good. That is why I was able to make it through, irrespective of the hardships and obstacles I encountered in this environment,” he said. Mzimela said that besides changing the country, he also wanted to change the situation at home. He added that he derived strength from prayer. “If all goes well it would mean that dreaming is over. It’s time to wake up and get it. With each and every achievement I attain, I always say God’s plan is in motion. As a person who has high resilience, high work ethic and believes in excellence, this would be life-changing and a blessing,” he said. To donate, please click on the gogetfunding link - https://gogetfunding.com/?p=7614119 Daily News