Durban — A KwaZulu-Natal woman spoke of the successes she has achieved in farming during the official launch of the Agri-Business Youth Programme by the consulate-general of the US. The launch took place at Innovate Durban on Friday. The programme was successfully rolled out last year and saw the first cohort of 20 agriculture business owners receive business coaching and mentorship support, which enabled them to formalise their start-up businesses. The programme is being run in partnership with Mandela Washington Fellow alumna Zibu MaSotobe Sibiya, CEO of the Zoluhle Group of companies. Snenhlahla Masinga, 22, from eNdwedwe, said she had always been passionate about being involved in agriculture as her parents worked in the sector. After being part of the training programme, Masinga is currently supplying Boxer and Pick n Pay stores with produce. Masinga said the programme had been a major learning curve for her because it had forced her out of her comfort zone. She said all the knowledge she acquired “is something that one should know”, and she was willing to share what she learnt with other young people. Masinga also plans to share her knowledge with pupils at primary schools. She believes that agriculture “is the future and the starting point is teaching young people about it”. “The programme taught me so much; it taught me that you can do almost everything if you put your mind to it. I want more people to receive the kind of knowledge I did because I really think agriculture is the way forward in terms of ensuring food security in this country. I am ready to spread my wings wide now,” she said. Masinga owns the land she cultivates and has employed her parents, who encouraged her to grow fresh produce when she was 15, inspiring her to choose farming as a career. The US consulate became involved in the programme because they are seeking to develop economic sectors and find ways to promote equitable economic growth. They are helping young farmers to grow products for businesses that are part of larger supply chain networks. US consulate-general Anne Linnee said they were looking forward to continuing to grow their network of graduates from the Agri-Business Youth Programme, as they will be joining the alumni of other US embassy initiatives aimed at increasing skills in entrepreneurship, such as the Academy for Women Entrepreneurs, and the Business of Creative Entrepreneurship Africa, created by a dynamic alumnus. “This moment allows us to magnify the entrepreneurial spirit of women and youth across South Africa, and their ability to create jobs and opportunities that will allow them to invest in their country and their future.” Sibiya said it was a 12-week programme that helped young people who wanted to venture into the agriculture business. She said most young people knew how to grow produce but they struggled with managing their finances. She added it was amazing to see how the programme was benefiting the beneficiaries. Daily News