Durban — The murder of a 42-year-old woman has sent shock waves through the community of Waterloo, north of Durban, while efforts to stand up against an increase in violent crime are being made in the suburb. The woman was shot on Saturday in the presence of her 2-year-old granddaughter at her home in Ginger Road and died at the scene. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said the woman was shot in the head and shoulder. According to private security company Reaction Unit SA (Rusa), the woman was found on the lounge floor. Her granddaughter was in the lounge at the time of the shooting while her daughter, 19, and son, 24, were in the bedroom. Rusa said the toddler was not injured during the attack. “According to the deceased’s daughter, she heard a man questioning her mother about the whereabouts of her children. “She exited her bedroom and saw the suspect pointing a firearm at her mother, who screamed and told her to flee when the gunman opened fire. “The siblings broke a bedroom window and climbed out of the house. The 19-year-old sustained a deep laceration to her left forearm from broken glass. A case of murder is being investigated by Verulam SAPS. Last month, 25-year-old Samkelo Mazamo died in a hail of bullets while inside his home in Waterloo. Ward councillor Johnson Chetty said it was common knowledge that violent crime was escalating throughout the country. Chetty said it was disturbing that criminals had targeted an impoverished community like Waterloo. Chetty said the Verulam Community Policing Forum (CPF), which is very active in forming street committees, and the Verulam SAPS were keen to revitalise the Waterloo sector CPF. Chetty said that two weeks ago he facilitated an imbizo at the Waterloo sports centre in conjunction with various stakeholders. “The station commander took complaints, and also provided a commitment to the residents to increase police visibility,” Chetty said. He added that on Saturday a combined imbizo was held in the Verulam CBD. “The people are living in fear and seeking relief from the government, but the usual excuse from SAPS management is the lack of resources. “Clearly, the government needs to take accountability for the rampant crime and provide the necessary resources so criminals can be apprehended and put behind bars. The justice system needs an overhaul.” Daily News