Durban — There was yet another delay in the murder trial of a Newlands East mother and child on Wednesday in the Durban High Court where Slindile Pamela Zamisa, her daughter Andile Zamisa, 23, as well as a teenager, are charged with the 2020 murders of Smangele Simamane and her daughter Sbongakonke Mthembu,12. Last month, when the women charged last appeared in court, the State said that the matter had been on the roll for a possible plea; however it was adjourned, as the defence who was representing all three accused, would no longer be doing so. Defence attorney T Mlondo would only be representing the minor in the matter. On Wednesday, State prosecutor G E Xulu said that legal aid judicare had not yet been organised for accused one and two. The matter was then adjourned to next week for such. The bodies of Smangele, who would have celebrated her 42nd birthday on Wednesday and Sbongakonke, were found stuffed in a large suitcase that was dumped on Lwandle Drive in KwaDabeka. Outside court, Smangele’s husband, Senzo Simamane said that having yet another delay, especially on Smangele’s birthday was frustrating, adding that there was an entire month for legal representation of the accused to be finalised. “We have been coming to court for this case for a long time now, something needs to change with the country’s constitution because currently, the law seems to favour perpetrators rather than the families of the victims. I’m tired of this case, tired of these delays.” Simamane said that following his wife’s murder, it had been suspected that he had killed her and he was aware that his wife’s family based this on the suspicion that he had organised for her to be killed. “Luckily the plan didn’t work. I’m still coming to terms with the loss and I am still attending therapy sessions.” Simamane, a metro police officer, said that he stayed at home for a full year, unable to cope with the deaths and it took him some time to be able to put his uniform back on. “It was hard to put on my uniform because I see myself as a failure who failed to protect his wife and child while I’m a police officer.” In April, Zamisa’s stepdaughter Nomfundo Truelove Ngcobo pleaded guilty in the Pietermaritzburg High Court to Simamane’s murder and was sentenced to 20 years’ imprisonment. In her plea, she had said the motive for the killing was that she believed that Simamane was part of a group of people who were responsible for her father’s death through witchcraft. Last year in May, the Pietermaritzburg High Court sentenced Nicholas Sithembiso Lamula, 41, who was Zamisa’s boyfriend, to six years’ imprisonment for his role in the murders. According to his plea, his girlfriend managed to lure Simamane and her daughter to a house, where she blamed them for a close relative’s death. Zamisa and her daughter have been in custody since their arrest in June 2021, having been denied bail in the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court. The minor is in the care of a guardian. Daily News