Durban - Wild Coast Sun has launched a hotel, gaming and food services academy as part of a programme aimed at training and developing its employees and the community. The Wild Coast Academy opened its doors on May 16, but was officially launched on Monday.  The programme will run in conjunction with the International Hotel School and Summit, which develops specialised course curricula for various industry sectors. Speaking to the Daily News, Wild Coast Sun general manager Peter Tshidi said the academy will form an integral part of the resort’s socio-economic development programme. “It is our hope that the academy will provide people from the region with the requisite training opportunities to enter and excel in the broader hospitality and food and beverage management sectors. "The Wild Coast Sun is the Sun International Group’s only beachfront resort and its second-oldest property after Sun City, and is located about 170 kilometres south of Durban. Up to now, local residents hoping to study towards a career in the hospitality industry had to travel and stay in Durban at huge expense," he said. Tshidi said the academy currently had 15 students, who were selected and funded by the hotel based on their successful applications. Further, he said the academy would also be offering a 50% discount on courses to students not funded by the hotel. “The Wild Coast Academy now offers world-class training right on the doorstep of our stakeholder communities, and we are immensely proud of this achievement and the transformative role it can play in economic development and empowerment in this region,” he said. Wild Coast Sun aims to help the development of micro, small and medium enterprises so as to contribute to job creation, local economic development and transformation in the area. One of the selected students, Siphokazi Mtsha, said she was grateful for the opportunity and would use it to gain experience. "I [was unemployed] and had nothing to do at home; I actually do not like sitting around doing nothing, so I look forward to being here and hopefully get full employment within the casino or anywhere in the tourism sector," she said. Nokukhanya Mbizapho, who was accepted at the academy, said she was happy that she would be gaining experience. "It is better than sitting home doing nothing. I feel that this hotel is giving back to the community and I'm blessed to be part of this initiative," she said. Wild Coast Sun marketing manager Cynthia Nene said the academy was offering support to both the young and the old, outside and within the academy, with the aim of them having a better chance to find employment. "I always tell them that opportunities such as this should be used wisely, and they must know that after successful completion they may find employment or even build sustainable businesses for themselves. We are happy to be part of this amazing initiative," said Nene. Daily News