Durban — The ANC national executive committee (NEC) members in President Cyril Ramaphosa’s faction fear the “step aside” resolution, if discussed, may leave Ramaphosa more vulnerable as his opponents continue to push for it to be scrapped. This is according to a member of the national working committee of the ANC who spoke to the publication on Sunday as the party’s policy conference continued at Nasrec in Johannesburg. Provinces including powerhouses such as KwaZulu-Natal and Limpopo ANC leaders have been leading the call to have the “step aside” resolution reviewed, citing that it was selectively used to target those opposed to the president while those who are aligned to him were being protected. “This is going to be a very heated and interesting topic as it would give those who have been sidelined a chance to come back during the December conference.  “However, we are not worried about whether it is going to be removed or not because we have enough numbers to win the conference in December and revive the ANC. “I must add that what I have seen when the president gave an opening address at the conference, was a weakened man who could clearly see that he had a constituency.  “There was just no energy at all. Delegates were not excited at all, I think the president is now aware that the membership has no confidence in him,” she said. She felt that it was no longer about the renewal of the organisation, but more about ensuring that opponents do not contest in the elective conference. On Saturday, newly elected ANC KZN secretary Bheki Mtolo contended that the resolution might have had a good intention when it was adopted by the movement in 2017, however, it was now used in factional battles and is likely to have an adverse impact on the December national conference. “The province agreed on the urgency to deal with corruption and ensure that those responsible are held accountable, however, we have also agreed to review the implementation of the step-aside resolution to position the organisation on a trajectory for unity and renewal,” said Mtolo. Last week, ANC Limpopo secretary Reuben Madadzhe said that they will be lobbying other provinces during the ANC's national policy conference to join in their bid for the step aside resolution to be scrapped. Daily News