Durban - KwaDukuza mayor Lindile Nhaca has taken aim at what it calls a local ratepayers’ organisation for being part of a campaign to oust it from the municipality. In an opinion piece written under the name of Nhaca, in her capacity as the mayor of KwaDukuza Municipality, she said the KwaDukuza Residents’ Forum (KDRF)  has morphed from a ratepayers’ association that had the respect of the municipality, into a political organisation. The mayor took aim at the organisation as attempts to remove her, along with the speaker and the deputy mayor, through a vote of no confidence led by ActionSA, hit a snag amid infighting between opposition parties. The no-confidence motion was meant to be tabled on Thursday this week. “It has become more interesting to learn how a local ratepayers’ association, named KDRF, has simply jumped (onto) the political bandwagon by launching a campaign to remove the ANC from power,” said Nhaca in the article. “This week we saw the KDFR undergo a serious metamorphosis, from being an apolitical ratepayers’ association that we had respect for, to a branch of a political party that is hell-bent on removing a government that was elected by the people,” the piece continued. “We have been observing the conduct and tone of the KDRF in its engagements with the leadership of KwaDukuza Municipality. In most instances, ActionSA would lose debates in council, only for the mayor to receive the very same issues being officially raised by the KDRF. “The political posture taken by the KDRF at intimidating and bullying opposition parties to support the frivolous motion of no confidence proposed by ActionSA has relinquished its position of being treated as a ratepayers’ association. “I am more than convinced that KDRF is a political wing of ActionSA rather than an apolitical ratepayers’ association, and should be treated in a manner that accords with the status of a political party,” she said. The KDFR fired back, saying it was not a political party nor a ratepayers’ association, but a legally-registered civic organisation that seeks to represent all residents across KwaDukuza Municipality, from ratepayer or indigent, tenant to business. In a letter published on its Facebook page, chairperson of the KDRF, Warwick Bruce Chapman, who was once a DA councillor in eThekwini, said it has, since inception, engaged in good faith with the municipality, including in extensive formal submissions. “We placed matters of material concern at your door and made substantive proposals about collaboration to resolve those matters.  The municipality, including the mayor's office, chose not to respond. “It is an indisputable fact that the KwaDukuza Municipality is being run into the ground by successive ANC-led governments, and we support any opportunity to change the status quo.  We have made this clear on many occasions, and will continue to do so until we achieve our goals around ensuring an accountable and transparent municipal administration for the people of KwaDukuza,” said the letter. THE MERCURY