Durban — Aspiring ANC provincial chairperson Nomusa Dube-Ncube has called on party members to continue seeking wisdom from former party leaders in the province, such as ex-president Jacob Zuma. Finance MEC Dube-Ncube, the provincial party treasurer, was addressing a Mzala Nxumalo regional general council meeting in Nongoma, northern KwaZulu-Natal, on Saturday. She said it was important for members to consult leaders, including Dr Zweli Mkhize, Sbu Ndebele, Zuma and others. Mkhize and Ndebele are former provincial chairpersons and KZN premiers. "Comrades we must not forget our leaders. We must always go to them and consult them. They are our sources of wisdom and would be able to guide us on how to take our movement forward because the wisdom and knowledge they have would help us a lot," said Dube-Ncube. At the coming provincial ANC conference, she cautioned members to avoid emotional fights and personality contests that seek only to elevate personal interests above the needs of the people of the province. She called on members to ensure that the party played its rightful role as a catalyst for change in the province and country. Her call on members to seek advice from former leaders came against the backdrop of a continued influx of ANC members to Nkandla to visit Zuma. Although she was said to have received nominations in the region, the leadership there has refused to announce the name of the person it wants for the all-powerful position of chairperson. The regional secretary, Ntokozo Nxumalo, said any region that wanted them to support their candidate must be prepared to include current Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane in their line-up, saying they were not demanding any specific position for Simelane but wanted her to make it into the top five. Simelane hails from Vryheid, which forms part of the region, including Nongoma, Ulundi, Pongola and Paulpietersburg (eDumbe). Out of 95 branches, the region would be bringing 77 delegates to the regional conference. Nxumalo said branches did not nominate anyone, but most agreed that Simelane should be in the top five. Dube-Ncube, from KwaMashu in Durban, is expected to fight for the chairperson position alongside current chairperson Sihle Zikalala and businessman Sandile Zungu. The conference, which was supposed to take place this weekend, was postponed to next weekend. It was postponed due to a failure by branches to meet the 70% threshold necessary. Provincial spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela said the province would know on Tuesday whether it had met the threshold, when it receives a report from the national office which oversees the conference. Daily News