Durban — Political analysts have warned of the possible recall of KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala following the defeat of his slate at the ANC provincial conference at the weekend. Zikalala and his secretary, Mdumiseni Ntuli, along with Human Settlements and Public Works MEC Jomo Sibiya were defeated in the hotly contested election for the top five positions. Political analyst Professor Sipho Seepe said the removal of Zikalala would depend on the relationship he has with the newly elected leadership, adding that this would have a direct impact at the national level of the ANC. The new leadership “will also have to reflect on whether the poor performance of the party in last year’s municipal elections can be attributed to his (Zikalala’s) administration. This is important since whatever the new leadership does will be sending a message to the voters”. “Should Zikalala be removed, it would be difficult for the ANC national leadership to intervene.” Another analyst and former diplomat, Botsang Molioa, said Zikalala’s demise was a result of how he performed as leader of the ANC in the province and cited the July unrest and the Phoenix murders as examples of his shortcomings. “It is common practice that those who lose (at a ) conference are removed from government, but it is also a wise move for those in power because they will need to deploy their own people in government to get resources and make money so that they prepare for their own campaign as the ANC December conference closes in,” he said. Political analyst and lecturer at the University of Limpopo, Dr Metji Makgoba said the ANC had always maintained that it could not have two centres of power and this meant that the premier had to be the ANC provincial chairperson. Asked whether the new leadership would restructure the provincial government and recall those who failed to emerge at the conference, the newly elected ANC KZN secretary Bheki Mtolo said no one would be recalled. “I must put (it) categorically that there are no two centres of power, instead there is one strategic centre of power which is the ANC, that deploys those of us in government who get elected through an ANC ticket. “The firm answer is there will be no recall because there is no need for anyone to be recalled,” he said. Daily News