Durban — The KwaZulu-Natal Agricultural Union (Kwanalu), has embarked on an economic rejuvenation project in which 1 500 women and youngsters will be taught practical entrepreneurial and financial skills as part of the union’s Women and Youth Rural Entrepreneurship (Wyre) initiative. The initiative aims to target chronic unemployment in the province by boosting micro-economies within rural and agricultural areas. The initiative was launched last October as a response to the impact the July looting had on the economies of rural towns across the province. Kwanalu CEO Sandy La Marque said the union had identified that poverty and lack of skills could only be effectively tackled if people committed to a sustained programme that supported participants throughout the entrepreneurial process. “Contrary to what is believed, the looting and rioting was not only centred in the larger cities and towns, but also in smaller communities,” she said. With the vision of providing women and youth in rural areas with the real and easily implementable tools, mentorship, networks and resources to start their own businesses, and empower others to do the same, Wyre has been providing training to the communities of Msinga, Greytown, New Hanover, Matimatola, Eshane, Muden, KwaNyuswa, Embo, Molweni, KwaNgcolosi, Pietermaritzburg, Ulundi, Msunduzi, Vryheid, Port Shepstone, Mahlabatini and Paddock. The initiative’s entrepreneurial business training has offered a virtual micro business administration course by the Trident Institute and accredited Services Seta training for previously disadvantaged youth from the Embo community in Hillcrest. La Marque said the four-day micro business administration course aimed to empower emerging rural entrepreneurs by giving them the skills and knowledge needed to successfully start or improve their own businesses. The focus is on practical entrepreneurial skills such as market investigation, buying stock for business, costing and pricing for traders, producers and service providers, selling, writing a business plan, weekly money management and stock control. Cedric Buffler, the CEO of the Trident Institute, said students who had demonstrated their application of what they had learnt were awarded a diploma. “People must be empowered to take responsibility for their own economic destinies, instead of waiting to be rescued,” said Buffler. Student Glantine Mashile said the course made rural development a real possibility for her, especially the modules on costing and pricing, and money flow management. “If you get those right when running a small business in a township or rural community, I don’t think anything will stop you,” said Mashile. Another student, Xolani Gamede of Embo, said he was astounded by the resilience of rural youth and women who were trying to create a living for themselves. Wyre project manager Kathy Hurly said she was pleased that the young people involved in the programme had demonstrated strength of character and gratitude for the opportunities provided. “They hustle every day to make a living,” Hurly said. Daily News