Durban — The newly elected DA eThekwini caucus leader, Thabani Mthethwa, would not rush to appoint the new party chief whip following his appointment to the new position on Monday. Mthethwa, a former National Freedom Party councillor and DA chief whip, now has the tough task to appoint a chief whip to serve in his vacated position. Mthethwa told the Daily News he was in no rush to fill the position because they work as a team and are capable of doing work. Mthethwa added that he would have to consult with the relevant people before making his choice. His election took place at the Durban City Hall and included members of the caucus. In his acceptance speech Mthethwa thanked the members for entrusting him with the position. “I am incredibly honoured and privileged to have been elected to lead this diverse and skilled team of democrats. We have enough skills and talent to represent the people of eThekwini. We are ready for the task ahead. A very strong foundation has already been laid and myself and the team will build on that,” said Mthethwa. He committed himself to working hard to hold the ANC-led coalition in the municipality accountable, always placing the needs of residents first. Mthethwa received more votes than councillor Mzamo Billy, who was deputy caucus leader under Nicole Graham, Durban North councillor Shontel de Boer and Glenwood councillor Sakhile Mngadi. The three had put up strong campaigns. The provincial leadership congratulated Mthethwa and wished him well in his new responsibilities, saying it would continue to support the caucus in its challenging work in the metro. The party said in due course its Provincial Executive Committee would consider recommendations by the new caucus leader on his appointment of a chief whip. Mthethwa, who joined the DA in 2011 and became councillor in the same year, was appointed by Graham after she became the caucus leader last year. The caucus leader position became vacant after the resignation of Graham, who will also leave her position as executive committee councillor in the eThekwini Municipality at the end of this month. Graham was accepted to pursue a Master of Business Administration degree in Leadership and Enterprise at the University of Sydney. Daily News