Durban — Njabulo Ndlovu’s name will be added to the National Register for Sex Offenders as ordered on Thursday by Judge Thoba Poyo-Dlwati who handed the 29-year-old five life sentences for the murders of three Ndlela women and the rape of 7-year-old Zenande Ndlela in Sobantu in KwaZulu-Natal, on June 27. Ndlovu pleaded guilty last Tuesday to killing Zanele Ndlela, 65, her daughter Simangele Ndlela, 46, and 7-year-old granddaughter Zenande Ndlela. Poyo-Dlwati said that she had found no exceptional circumstances for the court to deviate from the minimum sentence for each crime, which was life imprisonment. She pointed out that little Zenande had been raped more than once. Poyo-Dlwati said that, in her view, the attack on the Ndlela women and Zenande was barbaric. She also said she agreed with the State that it had been apparent from Zanele’s post-mortem report that she had fought for her life. The judge said that even though it was said in his plea that Ndlovu had been drinking before he committed the crimes, he also said that he still could tell right from wrong. “It can’t be said that alcohol affected his moral blameworthiness. While it was submitted that his age and his rendered guilty plea were among some factors constituting exceptional circumstances, I don’t agree. The accused has not taken the court fully into his confidence explaining why he raped Zenande twice and why he killed an elderly Zanele instead of leaving. These are questions that will never be answered,” said Poyo-Dlwati. She said the court was not convinced that Ndlovu had a true appreciation of the consequences of his actions. “All three victims were females, adding to the growing numbers of gender-based violence in the country. The lives of these women, three generations, meant nothing to the accused.” She said that the victim impact statement by Zanele’s sister painted a picture of a close-knit family. “They all saved money to ensure Zenande went to the best schools. They hoped she would have a bright future but all their dreams were shattered by you. Zanele’s sister is living with the guilt that if only she had taken Zenenda for the school holidays, she would still be alive. Your deeds also affected her faith as she questions God.” Poyo-Dlwati said that according to the victim impact statement by her teacher, Zenande had a jovial personality and was popular on the playground. “She loved to tell jokes, this means she loved to see people happy. You had no mercy and empathy in the commission of these atrocious acts.” Daily News