Durban — A Durban-based advertising agency, The Hardy Boys’ (THB) under A Wunderman Thompson Company was the only KwaZulu-Natal agency to have an advert in the list compiled by Kantar. Kantar is the leading marketing data, insights and consultancy company in South Africa. The list featured the Best Liked Ads of Q3 and Q4 2021 in South Africa with most of the ads being produced by Gauteng and Cape Town agencies, many of them on high-end budgets. The group is made up of idea generators, strategic thinkers and passionate problem solvers who, since 1994, have been helping brands find their voice. They are an award-winning group, that is a multi-disciplinary communications and innovations company. The television commercial (TVC) that got them featured is for Nola Mayonnaise, Embracing new ways, which was featured in the Top 10 of South Africa’s Best Liked Advertisements of Q4 2021. “We are really proud of this accomplishment. With a relatively modest TV budget, we were able to create a TVC that emotionally engaged our audience through powerful storytelling and authentic moments that clearly felt genuinely relatable to the audience,” said creative director, Nick Gordon. “It reinforces for us, our role in the Durban agency landscape as a dynamic agency that is still in touch with consumers,” he added. The advertisement, which was directed by Director Kit of Darling Films, tells the story of a young granddaughter and her friends visiting her grandparents for lunch. The young people are very careful to observe their traditions when interacting with their elders, but when it comes to the meal, the grandmother surprises them with how innovative she had been using her Nola mayonnaise. “It was really a special spot, and between the choice of music, the performances and the characters it was always something that felt really warm and heartfelt and I’m really happy that it resonated with so many people,” Director Kit said about the advertisement. Copywriter Silindile Nkosi said she was proud to work on an advert that challenged stereotypes in a warm way; “Traditions and new ways are constantly interacting. Where they meet is where we evolve as a society,” she said. The message is that Nola allows everyone young and old to tap into their creativity and try new things. “It’s always rewarding to see stories that tap into human truths and cultural insights resonate with the audience,” said Geoff Paton, who was responsible for crafting the memorable script. Nola Mayonnaise brand manager Nelia Nieuwoudt said: Embracing New Ways communicates, in a modern, vibrant and progressive tone that the creamy versatility of Nola Mayonnaise inspires everyone, young and old, traditional and modern to try new ways with the food they love.” The creative team of Paton, Gordon, Nkosi and Nontobeko Kunene said they tapped into the latest insights about how South Africans differ across generations when it comes to certain beliefs and practices around meal-making with young people still feeling reverence for the traditional ways of cooking and the older generation being more surprisingly willing to try new ideas and cooking methods. Daily News