Durban - Pietermaritzburg swimmer Matthew Sates, 18, won two gold medals on the opening day of the Mare Nostrum series in Monaco. The teen, who is not new to making headlines for his sterling performances, snatched gold medals in the 400m freestyle and 200m individual medley. In the latter race, Sates took the lead after the first 50m but then dropped back to third spot in the backstroke leg, his least favourite. He then stormed back to the front of the pack in the final freestyle leg, to win in 1:57.43 with American Sam Stuart second in 1:58.31. Sates is part of the South African team set to represent the country at the Fina World Championships that will be held in Budapest from June 18 to July 3. At the opening day of the Mare Nostrum series the South African team raked in six medals including the two Sates bagged. The team’s coach Wayne Riddin said it certainly was a good start to the first day in Monaco, with Sates starting off with the 400m freestyle victory and then ending with another gold and a meet record in the 200m individual medley (IM). “He set the tone for the other 18-year-olds with Lara van Niekerk taking the silver in the women’s 100m breaststroke and Pieter Coetzé the bronze in the men’s 100m backstroke. Lara also broke a meet record in the 50m breaststroke swim-offs. Veteran Chad le Clos continues to earn medals – a silver in the men’s 200m butterfly – while Rebecca Meder was pleased with her bronze in the women’s 400m IM,” said Riddin. After leading for much of the 100m breaststroke race, Van Niekerk was outtouched by Olympic champion Lydia Jacoby. The young SA star, who beat compatriot and Olympic silver medallist in the event Tatjana Schoenmaker at the recent SA national championships in Gqeberha, finished in a time of 1:06.60 with Jacoby taking the win in 1:06.55. “In the race, I didn’t really see anyone next to me, but I knew she (Jacoby) was going to come back hard on the second 50… I saw her at the end, I actually thought I had it but she just out-touched me. She was super-sweet about it, she congratulated me and she’s an amazing person.” Speaking about competing at the senior international level for the first time, Van Niekerk said: “I’ve definitely learned how to manage with my nerves – how to control it and not let big names that have achieved a lot intimidate me or anything. And I’ve just learned to enjoy every moment because this is all part of the learning process.” Daily News