Durban - Sibaya Community Trust has allocated R800 000 towards the upgrade of the SA National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence (Sanca) admin building in Durban. Chairperson of Sibaya Casino and Sibaya Community Trust Vivian Reddy said alcohol and drug addiction have caused much harm in families and been the main factors behind gender-based violence. Reddy added that these addictions had broken happy and loving homes and turned them into violent and unbearable homes. He said he could not just sit and watch all of that play out without doing something about it. “As society, we should have the heart to save people from destroying themselves, thus we at Sibaya Community Trust invested to renovate the administration block which accommodates their human capital, people who are responsible for rendering an effective service delivery to their beneficiaries and thereby enhancing and restoring dignity,” he said. Sibaya Community Trust has helped communities and families in many ways. It has invested in legacy projects in infrastructure, health and education, to name a few. It has assisted 120 charity organisations with more than R230 million to impact the lives of the challenged, less fortunate and vulnerable in our society. Chairperson of the governing board of Sanca in Durban Jack Daya expressed his gratitude and appreciation to the chairperson and the trustees of the Sibaya Community Trust for their generous contribution and commitment in improving the lives of substance abusers. According to Daya, Sanca Durban has 12 magisterial districts in the eThekwini north and south regions. He added that there had been a significant migration of their services from urban communities to those that have been seriously disadvantaged and under-resourced. “Substance abuse is the most destructive element eroding the foundation of society in South Africa. Today it has a major impact on the families and community at large, resulting in a number of psychological and social ills.” Sanca has been at the forefront of combating alcoholism and drug dependence through effective prevention and treatment programmes for the last 65 years. The organisation has made great strides in terms of growth and development. Daya added that it has been a tough year and they needed help with renovations, hence they sought donor funding for the repairs and structural upgrading of buildings. “We are currently looking to create a separate visitors’ arrival area for the incoming patients and family visiting them,” he added. Among the people who were grateful for this initiative was Sfiso Mvubu, who is a recovering addict. Mvubu, sober for five years, said Sanca gave him a new chance in life. He said Sanca gave him dignity and a home when he felt unwanted. He said the renovations made him happy because they meant more help for other people. “Sanca has been life-saving for me,” he added. “It was Sanca’s treatment programme and after-care services that assisted me to be a better person and for that, I am forever indebted to Sanca and to those who have come on board and donated to Sanca to make it a living reality for us,” he said. Daily News