Durban - As the State prepares to head to court next month where a 25-year-old KwaMaphumulo man is expected to appear on charges of the rape of two women, as well as the rape and murder of a 9-year-old girl, police have been slammed for their lack of swift reaction. The man’s first alleged rape was in June 2020 and the second and third happened on consecutive days in April last year. This week he made his first appearance in the Durban High Court where the matter was adjourned to next month for him to apply for legal aid. Professor Witness Maluleke, a senior lecturer at the University of Limpopo’s department of criminology and criminal justice, said this was not a new matter. “The alleged criminal is a notable serial killer and rapist. The motivating factors for committing the aforementioned crimes are well documented by seminal researchers across South Africa. “From the initial re-reported case, this suspect was supposed to be arrested and charged, (but) lack of severe and swift reaction to this crime did not (alter) his behaviour,” he said. Maluleke added that, therefore, the commission of other apparent crimes was supposed to be minimised. It is alleged that the accused was living at White City in KwaMaphumulo and the first complainant was his neighbour. “During the night on 27 June, 2020, the accused proceeded to the complainant's house and misrepresented to her that her mother was sick and he was going to accompany her to the place where her mother was. On the way, the accused forced her to the bushes and had sexual intercourse without her consent,” read his indictment. The following year in April, the accused had visited his cousin at Woza area in KwaMaphulo where it is alleged that he broke into the second complainant’s house. She was a tenant at the time. “He took her by force to the bushes where he had sexual intercourse with her without her consent”. It is further alleged that the next day the accused arrived at the third victim’s home, pretending to have been a victim of a robbery, seeking help. “He was known at that home, because he previously stayed in that area. … He forced her into the bushes and had sexual intercourse with her without her consent. He then strangled her to death and fled the scene. “The cause of death of the deceased was later established as ‘consistent with manual suffocation or strangulation’.” “…The estimated gains were greater than the losses before he disobeyed the law. Importantly, the urgent need for criminal justice system reform and accountability is highly sought.” Among the witnesses, the State is expected to call to the stand are relatives of the accused, as well as those of the deceased 9-year-old girl. Daily News