Durban - A 25-year-old man, who is facing three counts of rape and murder, made his first appearance on Tuesday in the Durban High Court where his matter was adjourned to June for him to apply for legal aid. It is alleged that the accused was residing at White City in KwaMaphumulo and the first complainant was his neighbour. “During the night on June 27, 2020, the accused proceeded to the complainant’s house and (lied saying) that her mother was sick and he was going to accompany her to the place where her mother was. On the way, the accused forced her into the bushes and had sexual intercourse without her consent,” read his indictment. In April 2020, the accused visited his cousin in Woza, KwaMaphulo, where it is alleged that he broke into the house of the second complainant, a tenant in the residence at the time, “took her by force to the bushes where he had sexual intercourse without her consent”. It is further alleged that the next day the accused arrived at the third complainant’s home pretending to be a victim of a robbery seeking help. “He was known at that home as he had previously stayed in that area. When the accused was left with the complainant he forced her into the bushes and had sexual intercourse with her without her consent. “He then strangled her to death and fled. The cause of death was established as consistent with manual suffocation or strangulation”. The deceased, the indictment stated, was a minor. Meanwhile, in a separate case in Polokwane, a date has been set for the trial of the alleged Limpopo serial killer and rapist. Themba Prince Willards Dube, 36, of Gwanda Mpaya village in Zimbabwe, appeared in the Seshego Magistrate’s Court, for allegedly killing seven women. He faces seven counts of kidnapping, rape and murder and a count of illegal immigration. He was initially arrested on November 3, 2021, for allegedly being in possession of a stolen cellphone that belonged to a woman who was kidnapped in Lebowakgomo in October 2021. The National Prosecuting Authority’s Mashudu MalabiDzhangi said, “Investigations led to the discovery of seven women’s bodies dumped across Polokwane. It is alleged he would lure women with a promise of jobs. The trial is set for January 16. He remains in custody.” Daily News