DURBAN – While repairs on the Umdloti River Bridge continues with a private-public partnership in place and with the assistance from the South African National Defence Force (SANDF), the community of La Mercy is calling on donors to contribute towards the rebuild following devastating floods. The close-knit community have joined in support to raise funds for repairs to be done sooner than the expected six-month waiting period. Residents on the north coast continue to suffer the inconvenience of having their roads severely impacted due to the destruction caused by the floods on the Umdloti River Bridge and the Tongaat River Bridge. Both of these were rendered unsafe and unsuitable for all vehicles. Ravi Ramsunder, chairperson of the La Mercy Ratepayers’ Association, said a joint task team, comprised of several organisations, engaged with the Department of Transport two weeks ago.  It was agreed the department would provide the equipment and labour required while the community would provide the necessary materials for the repairs. He said the task team made a proposal to the committee that funding be obtained via the community to secure the materials to enable the partnership. A fundraising account was set up through Gift of the Givers to ensure that all funds were correctly administered, he said.  Due to the damaged roads, residents have had to change their travel routes.  With no other alternatives passing La Mercy, road users have had to drive an extra 20km, while others face daily traffic at the Tongaat toll plaza. Ramsunder said while the temporary waiver of toll fees was welcomed, fuel costs have made an already dire situation worse for residents. Paul Ramlal, a community leader, lamented the situation.  “It’s not just about the bridge collapsing, but the added cost to people. We have a lot of elderly people living in the area.  “The floods locked us in. Adding to the destruction, we were without water and electricity, but we pushed through as a community and decided to raise funds. “We’ve sheltered people from the community, including those affected at the informal settlement, and we hope to do more. But we need funds for the repairs urgently,” Ramlal said. He also appreciated the assistance received by the community.  “The roads committee is thankful that Gift of the Givers have graciously accepted the responsibility to collect monies on behalf of the task team to enable the project,” he added. Repairs to the bridge were expected to be completed by the second week of next month.  To donate to the repair cost, residents can contact Ravi Ramsunder on 082 449 2656 for more details. SUNDAY TRIBUNE