Durban - Environmentalists are holding their breath in anticipation of the Makhanda High Court decision on whether it will allow Shell and Impact Africa to carry out a seismic survey along the Eastern Cape’s Wild Coast. South Durban Community Environmental Alliance (SDCEA) spokesperson Desmond D’sa said the court hearing was expected to be heard over three days, culminating on Wednesday. Fisherfolk and SDCEA members held a placard-carrying protest at North Beach in Durban on Monday. They stood in solidarity with other organisations and coastal communities interested in the hearing. The community won the first round of the case last year and were granted an interim interdict against Shell and the other respondents. The hearing on Monday was about part B of the application, which seeks a permanent interdict. The court will need to determine whether Shell required an environmental authorisation obtained under the National Environmental Management Act (Nema), and whether Shell’s exploration right was lawfully awarded given the lack of consultation with communities. The SDCEA’s environmental project officer, Cassandra Schnoor, said their main concern was that this seismic survey had the potential to produce petroleum along the coastline and create a mess by producing toxic substances including mercury, lead and arsenic. “These toxins are devastating for the health of fish, wildlife and the people who live and feed off of the coast. The oil and gas activities start with seismic testing. Seismic surveys have been found to kill fish eggs and larvae and impair the hearing and health of fish, making them vulnerable to predators,” she said. She added that all these disturbances disrupted important migratory patterns, pushing marine life away from their natural habitat. Fishermen who relied on fishing to make a living and take care of their families would be left without an income if the survey went ahead, she said. A Durban fisherman who identified himself as Bob said fishing was his only source of income. He has been a fisherman for 35 years. “There are people who are not well educated and they turn to fishing as their source of income, and all of that is going to be taken away from us,” he said. Environmental lawyer Kuben Samie said that if Shell won, it would set a dangerous precedent for environmental law in the country. In a previous media statement the country chairperson of Shell South Africa, Hloniphizwe Mtolo, said Shell’s planned 3D seismic survey off the Wild Coast aimed to explore potential hydrocarbon reserves beneath the seabed. “South Africa is currently highly reliant on energy imports for many of its energy needs. “Should viable resources be found offshore, this could significantly contribute to South Africa’s energy security and the government’s economic development programmes,” he said. Daily News