Durban - Two women and a man who allegedly lured a victim under the pretence of them wanting to have “a threesome” but who instead allegedly assaulted him with a hammer and robbed him, pleaded guilty in the Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. They are also accused of stealing the victim’s car, phone and his firearm with ammunition in Newlands West, Durban in 2019. The Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday heard how a victim of a “honeytrap” was struck several times with a hammer before his belongings including his car were stolen, after he had been lured to a house in Newlands West thinking he would engage in a threesome. Rekha Singh and common-law husband and wife Syed Arif Kazmi and Gwendolene Leonara Mackenzie appeared in court in connection with the crime. They have been charged with robbery with aggravating circumstances where the victim was allegedly hit with a hammer on the head and arm by Kazmi and Singh and Mackenzie allegedly threw glass plates and other objects at him. The trio pleaded guilty on Wednesday. However, Magistrate E La Grange after listening to their plea statements read out by their legal representatives, said that the plea statements were not accepted by the court on the basis that accused one (Singh) and three (Mackenzie) had alleged in their plea statements that they had consumed alcohol but did not go into details in terms of quantity and description. The matter was then adjourned to August for trial. According to Kazmi’s plea the trio’s modus operandi was that Singh would allegedly chat up men over WhatsApp Messenger and then lure them to the house on the pretext of sex or a threesome with his common-law wife Mackenzie. “I would then appear out of the blue and accuse the male of being sexual with my wife, accused three, and then rob the said male of his property and valuables or try to extort money from him to either pay up or have his wife notified of his affairs,” he said. He then described how he was allegedly signalled to come inside the house by Singh and armed with a hammer and pepper spray he stormed into the bedroom to find a startled victim. Kazmi said once in the room he noticed the victim’s gun with his holster. He took it and placed it on his waistline with the holster, after which the victim fought back to get his firearm. “We continued to grapple and fight, resulting in the complainant escaping the room and entering the lounge area. I followed him with the hammer in my hand. I struck him several times on the back of his head and body with it … Accused one and three also participated by throwing glass plates and other objects. The complainant picked up a glass coffee table and threw it at us. We jumped out of the way and the table broke on the wall behind us. The house was completely turned over. There was blood everywhere including on the complainant, who was injured and trying to escape. He eventually locked himself in the toilet, screaming for help,” said Kazmi. He said following this Singh allegedly suggested that the victim be locked inside the house while they decided on their next move. He said Singh then allegedly took the victim’s wallet, cellphone and key, handing these to him. “I later sold the cellphone to another Pakistan individual. Accused three and I left in the complainant’s car. It was driven by Saleem, accused one’s husband. We went in the complainant’s car to Pietermaritzburg. I was scared and afraid of what I had done, so I went into hiding until I was arrested at Durban Court on May 27 2019.” The plea statements were handed to the court as exhibits as Regional Court prosecutor Kaystree Ramsamujh also handed WhatsApp messages allegedly between the victim and Singh as well as a photo album of the scene as exhibits. Daily News